The Mapepire subsector is dominated by the Mapepire Cluster, a loose collection of 
worlds whose  share common economic & trade interests.  Except for Beaumonde( the 
military-industrial giant of the Beyond ), the cluster's  main industry is tourism 
attracting tourists as far away as the Imperium.  Piracy is minimal withing the cluster 
since it is the popular R&R destination of most of the pirates, privateers, & mercenaries 
in the surrounding regions.   Though part of the Comsentient Alliance, the Cluster 
maintains friendly relations with the Third Imperium.  All Cluster worlds maintain a 
Travellers Aid Society hostel.  Mapepire Cluster member planets(except Beaumonde & 
Kilogren) have a branch of the Imperial Express Bank present, & three planets 
(Mapepire Balsyn, Trayfowen, & Miryem) have a branch of the Bank of the Imperium 
present.  

The Liberty Hall subsector  ranks second in the Beyond for material riches.  It ranks second 
to none as the most wild, wide open & dangerous.  The subsector is a cockpit where Die 
Weltbund, The League of Free Worlds, the  Duchy of St. Foy, & the Razas of the 
Guildheim as the main powers. The IISS, Tuablin LTD, The League of Free Worlds 
Insurgent Army, & the Dark Goddesses are also active players, maintaining the chaos.  The 
constant conflicts, piracies, reprisals, & slave raids have created a situation where the mean 
average age is 25, of which 31% are orphans, & 78% are female.  It has been estimated that 
between 25-30% of Dark Goddesses recruits come from this subsector.

The Die Weltbund subsector was colonized by Solomani following the collapse of the 
Rule of Man.  Their descendants formed Die Weltbund to dominate & exploit their region 
of space.  Trade & travel is difficult in Die Weltbund as foreign vessels are forbidden, 
subject to confiscation with their crews subject to death or servitude in the national 
transport service.  Accordingly, the state monopoly & highhandness of the DW Grand 
Navy fosters great resentment in their neighbors.  Pirates, smuggling, & lowlevel warfare 
is constant among the worlds of the subsector.  In the trailing regions of the subsector, 
Die Weltbund is challenged by group  of independent systems  & the power of the 
Mal'Gnar.

The Radiant is famous for its extensive Ancients ruins & artifacts. However the 
subsector is dominated by the Mal 'Gnar who loving their solitude, discourage tourists 
& punish trespasser harshly.  The Mal 'Gnar consider themselves the descendants of 
the Ancients & the guardians of their artifacts. Only a few Imperial scientists have 
been allowed to research the ruins.  Otherwise, the Mal'Gnar keep to themselves & 
make very goods neighbors.  The only two wars have been fought by the Mal'Gnar, 
both defensive wars against Die Weltbund.

Delta subsector has the highest concentration of wealthy, high-tech worlds & poor low- 
to middle tech worlds in the Beyond.  Most of the poor worlds are rife with pirates & 
smugglers who operate in the Liberty Hall, Metchi 'Alagwa, Northeast Middle Beyond 
subsectors.  Stability in the subsector is given by the Esylat Magistry which controls 
much of the spinward section of the subsector, & Delta Research which has many 
business division & investments in the region.  The subsector was surveyed & colonized 
early in the Imperium, however the Imperial presence waned after the first two Frontier 
wars caused contraction. In the last few centuries the Comsentient Alliance has 
supplanted Imperial rule with most of the Imperial colonies becoming members.  In 
fact, the human worlds of Delta is also the largest single contributor to the scout & 
navy service of the  Alliance.  Some of the worst elements of interstellar crime, such as 
the pirate 'Black Dog' McKimmon have their bases in the Delta subsector. The 
Mapepire Cluster has its farthest rimward system on the aptly named Endgame. Delta 
Research, the industrial powerhouse of the subsector is the largest producer of civilian 
& paramilitary spaceships under 10,000 tonnes in the Beyond(Beaufort Lines newest 
tonnage is almost exclusively Delta).  It is also the major designer & supplier of 
high-tech electronics in the Beyond rivalled only the industrialists of the Trelyn 
Domain.  

The Metchi'Alagwa(Many Stars)  subsector  is the Research center of the Comsentient 
Alliance.  At Miskahmiqui, Delta Research builds some of its newest ships, the 200 
tonne Avian class A2 far trader,  the 800 tonne MN Arachnid class merchantman, as 
well as its new line of luxury yachts.   Though piracy is rife in the subsector Dark 
Goddesses & Webrunners are not the main culprits.  Instead it is raiders from Die 
Weltbund (stealing ships & personnel); Zydarian pirates stealing what they can; & 
Tuablin financed raiders stealing technology or slave raiding.  Due to the lack of strong 
governments, the subsector suffers even more than Liberty Hall.

The Northeast Middle Beyond subsector  is a whismical name granted by the scout in 
charge of the intial survey.  The subsector is dominated by Tuablin, LTD., the 
descendants of a pirate empire smashed by its enemies four centuries before.  Growing 
slowly, secretly, & by subversion, Tuablin's leaders overthrew their ancient enemies.  
Now Tuablin reigns as a secret empire with tentacles reaching to the Imperium itself. 
Their headquarters is on Phyllis' Surrender, where they have parlayed Ancients genetic 
technology found on that planet with knowledge stolen elswhere to dominate the 
criminal underworld in most of the Beyond.  A report by the Comsentient Alliance's 
scout services estimates that the subsector's population has declined 32% between 989 
and 1114.

The Darkling Regions subsector has only 11 populated planets.  The Mal'Gnar have a 
small presence on the coreward regions.  The Sred*Ni have the only established jump 
route into the subsector, but like the Mal'Gnar, they have no desire to expand into it.
The region is known for two things.  First, is the many unexplained disappearances of 
ships.  The second is the Northstar Ringworld, an ongoing construction already two 
centuries in the making.  The Northstar Republic, the corporate entity nominally in 
charge of the ringworld finances construction by selling sections already built to groups, 
corporation, ethnic factions, & governments.  The result is a semi-chaos of different 
regulations & customs (though the lawlevel is 0 in most places).  This makes business, 
especially criminal business quite good.  Northstar is also the connection for the 
Florians & other groups in the Trojan Reaches to tap into the reaches of the Beyond.

The Zydar subsector is dominated by two powers, the mysterious masked, semi-piratical 
Zydarian Codominium; & the loose confederation of the Comsentient Alliance, whose 
captial is located at Rabanitas.   The balance of power between the Alliance & the 
Zydarians, has forced the latter to abandon active piracy in the subsector.  The result is 
the most stable & peaceful subsector in the Beyond next to the Mapepire subsector. 
Despite the Codominium's deserved reputation as a haven for rebels, criminals & pirates; 
the Zydarians actively oppose (at least in their own territory) the operations & minions of 
Tuablin, LTD.   The Zydarian pirates also have a tacit truce with Vargyr corsairs of the 
Vargyr Reach to the spinward of the Zydar subsector.

The Middle Beyond subsector is split between the Zydarians, The Comsentience 
Alliance(25% of the Alliance fleet is stationed here), & the Sred*Ni.  Webrunners corsairs 
operate here under the protection of the Sred*Ni.  The  subsector is also the powerbase of 
Padua P. Paldoran, half of Bellakchan/Paldoran Enterprises, GmbH who owns the planet 
Paldoran.  Since his break with Tuablin, LTD in 1013, Paldoran has been increasing the 
defenses of his home system.

The subsector is named for its dominate race, the Sred*Ni (a spiderlike mammalian race). 
The Sred*Ni are not overfond of allowing entrance to their domain of Z'Sred*Ni 
(non-Sred*Ni)-travel within their space is at your own risk.  The Travellers Aid  Society 
considers the WHOLE subsector an Amber Zone. The Imperium & the Comsentient 
Alliance have a hand off policy & do interfer with Heptad decisions involving the 
punishment & imprisonment of their citizens.  The only exception is Webrunners, & even 
they are restricted to trade Highports in Sred*Ni systems.

ARANIOPA(SUBSECTOR L)
This subsector is dominated by the allied & powerful pocket empires of the aslan 
Eikhiya Sorilyr & the human  Araniopan League.  Wedged  between the Sred*Ni & the 
Aslan Hierate the allies have more than held their own.  They have peace with the 
Sred*Ni after defeating them  in a major war (1098-1103). Since then, they have been 
able  to concentrate against the Khaukheairl & Yerlyauiwo clans, resulting in a peace 
treaty (1111) & a trade treaty with Kaukeairl (1115).

SPINWARD DRIFT(SUBSECTOR  M)
The subsector gets its name from erroneous observations in 832 that the stars in this 
subsector were drifting to spinward.  The distortions were discovered later to be 
influenced by the fluctuations of Delta Cephei, but the subsector still kept its name. 
Still an valid name since all kinds of pirates, mercs, fugitives from the Imperium & the 
IDES all seem to drift here. The Zydarian Codominium is the  dominant power, but as 
they are behind most of the piracy they are a contributory factor  in the chaos in the 
subsector. Also there are frequent clashes between Zydarian, Vargyr, Aslan, & Dark 
Godddesses pirates. More spacecraft disappear here than any other subsector. The 
Travellers Aid Society rates the entire subsector as an amber zone.

I-Glathriel has been a training ground for regional merchant services as well for the 
scout services of the Imperium & the Comsentient Alliance.   The IISS bases are 
among the best in the service, possibly because so many Imperial scouts have retired 
there AND the important Imperial X-boat route through the system.  The sector is 
also a haven & training ground for the Webrunners & Dark Goddesses (DG's 
headquarters is in this subsector) who politically dominate the subsector.   Also 
within this subsector is the infamous Starbase Arcturus II, commanded by 
Commodore Steven vice-Aarons.  Scene of the most violent mutiny in Imperial history, 
this important outpost lies strategically between the Comsentient Alliance & the 
Aslan Hierate.  Since taking over in 1106, vice-Aarons has come to terms with 
Webrunners & Dark Goddesses, added them to his intelligence network.

The Storm subsector was named by the IISS for the high number of recurring solar 
storms, the most violents systems getting a 'storm' prefix.  A non-industrial region 
known for its high-protein grains, anagathic spices, exotic tobacco, wines, brandies, & 
beers.  The subsector is also the spinward extreme of the Aslan colonial states & the 
rimward extreme of the I'Sred*Ni Heptad.    Low level conflict between the two powers 
(fought mostly by pirates & privateers) is currently expected to break out into open war.  
Dark Goddesses support the humaniti & some Aslans; while Webrunners in the region 
support the Heptad.   The Comsentient Alliance, though on friendly terms with the 
Aslan Hierate maintains a strong(24% of the CA navy is stationed here) naval presence 
(back by privateers) to keep the peace in the subsector.

The Aslani subsector  was dominated by the Poicxh until their defeat & expulsion by 
Aslan naval & military forces.  Currently the region is split between a few human 
worlds & the rival Aslan Khaukheairl & Yerlyauiwo clans.  The odd system is Mal'Den 
(formerly Dhen Aht Qu) a world ceded to the Mal'Gnar by the queen of the Poicxh 
Quahktil in 877.  The Sred*Ni & their privateers have been raiding the Aslan worlds. 
With clan forces diverted to the Trojan Reaches, the Khaukheairl  & the Yerlyauiwo 
have been hiring mercs to defend their worlds in this subsector.  The Comsentient 
Alliance has also sent a task force into the system to mediate at the bequest of the 
Araniopan League.
