Qat

For 6 centuries, Qat flourished as a  scoutbase.  First as the Imperium's port of entry into the spinward Beyond, then as a waystation for the IISS's more forward bases.  In it's last centuries, Qat became a center of Imperial covert activity against the Zhodani & other Imperial enemies.  This came to an end  in 1057 when the IISS withdrew from Qat, handing over the scoutbase to the local inhabitants (many of whom were ex-scouts or descendants of scouts).  

Political control is loosely exercised through the Laansrab Council, consisting of the 48 Laanrab(Laanrab is both a domain & the title of the head of the Laansrab family)families. Rumors circulate, however that the Imperial Ministry of State via the IISS still maintains some measure of control.  Locals deny these rumors vigorously.

Qat has a class C  starport (the former IISS downport starbase) & a scattering of D & E class starports located in or near the myriad market towns.  Besides the caches left behind by the IISS, Qat's economy is supported by smalltime manufactoring mostly aimedat an offworld clientale of free traders, privateers, pirates, smugglers, & adventurers.

Though criminals are welcome on Qat, criminal syndicates not allowed to operate or even have resident agents on Qat.  The majority of organizations have accepted thiscondition.  The fates of the few who have tried (Tuablin, Ltd) to buck the localshave been unpleasant & educational.

For defense, Qat's millions are scattered across the planet in undergroundinstallations, called Siibs.  These Siibs range from family dwellings to underground factories.  Every Siibs, besides being hidden by natural & technicalcamouflage, are guarded by land to space batteries ( from either IISS storiesor by trade).  No exact count of Siib's are known, but is readonable they exist in the tens of thousands. Siibs are also built and rented to off world visitors.

History - Timeline of Qat

456. Planet discovered & surveyed by IISS.  Designated 769-89G.  
461. Officially named Qat after chief survey scout Nadir Qat.
468. Second survey of Qat recommends planet as a transit base for further 
Beyond/Vanguard Reach exploration.
475-478.  Scoutbase Tlisman  established on Mondat Mesa.  
501-514. First long range survey into the trailing Vanguard Reaches launched from Qat.
544.  The Imperial Ministry of State opens Qat up as a relocation center for refugees 
fleeing the collapse of the Liberty Hall Confederation & Die Weltbund agression.
565.  Population of Qat reaches the 1 million mark.
609. First shiploads of  Vargyr reach Qat as part of Emperor Olav's deportation policy.
620-624.  Hjaar Mutiny.  Scouts under base commander Iris Hjaar expel Imperial officials 
to protest the squalid conditions of Vargyr deportees. Mutiny ends with reformation of the 
deportation process & sacking of corrupt officials.
675.  First Zhodani raid on Qat.
688.  Delta Products Corp of Sha'anoe/Delta contracted to build 100 tonne scoutships for 
the IISS.
701.  First slave raid into Qat system targets deportee convoys. The base is reinforced 
with 23 SDB's & a company of Imperial Marines.  System of Siibs established.
787.  Gander incident.  The Gander, a 800 tonne trader filled with 234 refuges from 
Jeldmar arrives on Qat & given sanctuary.  Two months later, a squadron of 5 Die 
Weltbund destroyers arrive denouncing the refugees as criminals & demanding  they be 
handed over.  Jan Oort, current chief scouts refuses.  In a spirited engagement, all but 1 
destroyer is disabled at the lost of 2 SDB's.    Die Weltbund breaks off official 
correspondence with the Imperium.
792-795. Operation Xinchak.  Qat becomes the base for an IISS survey & covert 
operations into Die Weltbund.  Xinchak result in Imperial recognition of the League of 
Free Worlds.  Covert operations & goods are supplied via the Scout Service for the next 
two centuries.
797.  Second Zhodani raid. Zho squadron destroyed with all hands.
800-804.  Starbase Tethys, a class starport built in planetary orbit.
811.  Treaty of Qat establishes diplomatic relations between the Imperium & Esylat 
Magistry.
814-817.  Starbase Tlisman upgraded.  Siibs expanded including 1 built with repair & 
light industrial facilities.
816.  First SDB's launched on Qat.
816-820.  SORAG inflitrates Qat & establishes 3 clandestine bases.
834.  Major Zhodani fleet raid combined commando attacks.  Starbase Tethys heavily 
damaged.  
834-844.  Major immigration of population off Qat after raids.  Declines by 2/3.
856.  Last SORAG cell eradicated.
862-873.  Glenna Ohrcaat Chief Scout.  First Vargyr scouts inducted during her tenure.
865.  Operation Saht establishes Qat as a base for covert operations against Zydarian 
pirates
867.  First Qat built S-Type 100 tonne scoutship is commissioned.  283 will be built until 
production ceases.
868-894.  Slaver War,  Qat acts as advance base for IISS & Imperial Navy forces.
871.  The bases on Qat become self-sufficient.  All further construction & upgrades built 
locally.  
880-1. Major upgrade to Starbase Tethys.  
885.  200- & 400-tonne transports first built on Tethys.
887.  Renewal of Zhodani attacks.
891-894.  Zydarian War.  Zydarian privateers (secretly financed & encouraged by 
SORAG) wage war against Imperial outposts & allies.
893.  Battle 0f Buisiicz.  Imperial Scouts destroy Zydarian naval base on the moon of 
Buisiicz.
894.  Treaty of Dunn/Quadiszc ends the Zydarian War.  Zydar agrees to a non-agression 
pact with the Imperium.
898-925.  The Quiet Time, a period of expansion & peace.  The IISS resumes it's survey 
work in the Beyond & Vanguard Reaches. Qat's population increases to 3.5 million, many 
refugees from the Liberty Hall subsector.
898-914.  Expansion of Siib system including 7 new Factory Siibs.
925.  Amdresyvan incident.  The citizens of Amdresyvan on Qat destroyed by  ERW 
weapon.  Die Weltbund financed privateers are discovered as culprits.
927-956.  Operation Sederlunt.  Covert operations against Die Weltbund drain much 
Qat's resources & active scout personnel.  Amdresyvan, Vamreck, & Korse; the cities of 
Qat dismantled during this time.  The Imperium heavily finances LOFWIA.
936. Scout mission to Shrine to investigate the 'Serenity' mystery.
968.  Desorji Act.  Land grants on Qat become available to retired scouts to encourage 
settlement.
970. Clandestine Seffern Conference on Qat  brings together the IISS, Webrunners & 
Dark Goddesses.  Both parties agree to intelligence exchange.
977-984.  Dos Keverahn  becomes Chief Scout.  Starts a program of adding heavy defense 
weapons to land grants.  Qat scouts active in the Liberty Hall, Die Weltbund subsectors.
980.  Chief Keverahn issues letters of marque.  Opens Qat to pirates & privateers. 
Diplomatic overtures made to the Huin Hierarchy.
984.  Dos Keverahn killed by Die Weltbund  agents.  Beaufort Lines, staffed by 
ex-Imperial naval and scout personnel is founded by Samuel Beaufort.  Original shipping 
tonnage are "retired" IISS vessels.
993.  Chief Scout Maas Fhornest suspends the issuing of letters of mark.
997.  First Esylats inducted into the IISS.  
1000-1001.  Inspection tour of IISS outposts in The Beyond. Inspectors  recommend 
decommissioning Qat.

