Vlad was discovered in -238 by the colony ship Vlad's Lament after a misjump.  Vlad is the fourth planet of a 7 planet  system orbiting the yellow star of a yellow-red binary system. The planet has 2 moons Ghormlast (2500 km diameters), & Veral (1000 km diameter). The colony lived at a subsistence level until Burton Fhalior, local merchant, opened Vlad to pirates & other outlaws in 467.   The move proved so successful that Burton was able to suppress his fellow merchants in Esprit Vlad (the only city on Vlad) & crown himself Grand Duke Burton I in 491. Those merchants willing to throw in with him (as well as pirates willing to settle down) became his feudal barons, sharing in Vlad's new wealth. In 713 (during the reign of Phasial II), Vlad's notoriety attracted tourists throughout the Mapepire subsector resulting in jump routes from Beaumonde & Mapepire Balsyn.  To cater to this new influx, the next ruler Grand Duchess Juimalis built the New Captial of Delerium.  In 802, the planet was subjected to a anti-piracy raid by Die Weltbund, killing then Duke Burton III.  His successor, Phasial III negotiated a treaty with Beaumonde, Mapepire Balsyn that allowed the duke to build a subjump navy to defend the system.  This was tested in the reign of Burton IV(845) when anotherDW  raid was beaten off .   In 867 Die Weltbund & Vlad signed a non-aggression pact, opening the planet to Die Weltbund tourists.  
Since then Vlad has been a relatively peaceful planet except for the occassional coup (912, 979, 1023, 1095, & 1124).  Under increasing competition from Trayfowen & Shalimar's resort, Vlad started offering more & more exotic & dangerous  entertainments.  Some of these are the House of Pain, Deathboard (Gravboard dueling), & ther Euphoria, for example. While this has made Vlad famous outside the Beyond, it has made life on Vlad less than healthy when its rulers began 
endulging in some of the more suspect pleasures.  This has  resulted in the murder of Duchess Janna II(1095), Dukes Burton VI(979), & Phasial IV(1124).  Phasial's murder stemmed from his (& some of his nobles) passion for kidnapping 
desirable women & men.  It was very fatal for Phasial as his selected femmes were inducted into his harem/bodyguard unit, the Scarlet Guard.  Several of his guardswomen led by their colonel(Perdia Labnnix) murdered him, replacing him with his eldest child Duchess Ermizhad II(age 12) under the regency of Col. Perdia.

Today, Vlad's capital Delerium  is still THE PLACE to sample forbidden pleasures despite its Amber Zone designation.  The Travellers Aid Society even has an establishment here.

Vlad is a feudal technocracy ruled over by the Grand Dukes & their council of barons.  Despite abberations like Phasial IV, the dukes/duchesses take an active interest in the welfare & happiness of their subjects.  This is especially true in the public entertainments, such as the gladiatorial games & the grav racing, where much of the income of the duchy goes into.Vlad's police force is also efficient, which is very good since Vlad is a law level 0 planet.  A nature of the legal system is the hunt, where the courts may sentence an killer to be hunted down by friendsand/or relatives of their victim(s) in the Death Mart.  Most felons are either fined or exiled to Vlad's penal island.  In spite of the corruption on Vlad, the legal system(including the police) are very honest. Vlad is much dedicated to the code duello to settle disputes & to serve justice.
Vlad's defenses include the naval base on its largest moon, Ghormlast,  with its 24 missiles batteries, 8 triple laser turrets, 3 50 tonne PAWs, & 1 regiment of infantry (the 4th), which though 3 centuries old, is still formidible against pirates & small naval units.  13 200 tonne SDB's (3 triple laser turrets each) are stationed there also.  There is also the ducal custom satelite where incoming ships must dock at before landing or launching landing craft.  Internal security is handled by 8 regiments of infantry, 2 grav cavalry regiments, & a fleet of 16 missile armed submersibles.Vlad's external politics are (like most of the Mapepire Cluster) benign & very neutral since wars are bad for the tourist trade. Offworlder(& internal)  political squabbles are referred to either the Death Mart or the various dueling clubs on planet. With the fighting & dueling arenas, Vladian law takes a dim view of street violence unless one party can PROVE they were defending against aggression. Offenders are can be heavily fined, denied the possession of any weapons while on planet, or a stated period of time, imprisoned for 6 mos. to 20 years, or in the case of murder, execution. Assassins, unless they challenge their victim get little tolerance with the local law. The most serious problem is Phasial IV's opening up of Vlad to Tuablin, which coincided with an increase of mysterious disappearances.  The regent is moving against Tuablin, which has increased her standing with the populace.  However, the unmasking of Tuablin's activities has alienated the baronial Theri & Haurpar families who have profited by the slave & kidnapping trade.  The military backs the regent except for a few officiers of the Scarlet Guard

In 693, a transfer station for clandestine cargo & guests was established at Roguewine Station on Roguewine the system's 7th planet.  .It was built upon a failed mining operation by the Vladian Masra combine that operated from 567-574. Vladian Transfer (government owned shipping line) runs a service of 5 shuttles a week between Roguewine & Vlad.

