Leonidae Sector known as Agh'kiiree in the Two Thousand Worlds; and Shikalelishgan in the First Imperium. 

Lamura Gav              

Part of a human/alien interdependent culture, the  Cytrialin Unity. Described as "small, spidery-legged."  Their multi-subsector domain stretches into Hinterworlds H & L (Manere  Reach & Sontra). (See Challenge 39)


States:

Corona Regnum
A client state on the coreward-most edge (a "stretched" state reaching around to the spinward edge) of the Hive Federation. This Second Imperial client state would later form a critical diplomatic balance point which (along with  the Hiver-K'kree War) would see the halt of coreward Hive expansion. It is this unique role which accounts for the similarly unique distribution of the Regnum's star systems. Also, these ties to the Rule of Man account for the 
relatively advanced tech level of this distant state. Later, Hive authors would attribute this move as the first external manipulation of Hiver society. It is for this reason that Hivers call the Corona Regnum the first of the Five Curiosities. [HQ4]

Cytrialin Unity 
Entwined culturally, and to some degree biologically, the human-derived Lamura Teg and their small, spidery-legged, alien counterparts, the Lamura Gav (collectively, just the "Lamura"), have built a technologically advanced culture from the ruins of a hostile world which was originally home to neitherrace. Though anatomically disimiliar, their dependence and understanding of each other has given them a uniquely liberal perspective on the nature of the  universe. They view the universe as an open cycle of resources, with each aspect being part of the greater whole. This view has led to their great respect for life and the environment. As one passage of the Cytrialin says, "I breathe in the body of my descendants while standing upon that of my ancestors." The Lamura have great respect for all races, based on "the common thread which has built the fabric of our societies." 
Most members of the Cytrialin Unity are seldom found without one of the books of the Cytrialin--a collection of passages and phrases which detail the outlook of the Lamura races. 
The Lamura seem to take great pride in quoting appropriate passages from the Cytrialin at times of personal crisis. 
This seemingly fanatical devotion to their faith has led many in the Imperium to label them as religious fanatics, although the Cytrialin is better described as a philosophy of life, as it is void of strict dogma, ceremony, or 
supernatural deities. 
The Cytrialin Unity sits between the Hinterworlds and Leonidae sectors and spans 58 worlds with its TL14 culture. Its location has made it a trade nexus for traffic between the Imperium and the Two Thousand Worlds. A web of trade  routes radiates out from the world of Alike, within the Hinterworlds' borders. 
Though politically independent from the Imperium, the Cytrialin Unity maintains good relations and regular trade with its giant, spinward neighbor. (See Challenge 39)

Council of Leh Perash
Protruding its boundaries into the severl subsectors, the Council of Leh Perash is a Hiver client state spread across 42 systems--eight of which lie inthe Hinterworlds. This state takes its name from the meeting which gave birth to the state. Humans and human minor races compose only 20 percent of the council's population, with the other 80 percent being Jenda (a minor alien race indigenous to the realm) and other Federation races. 
Though operating at TL13, the council is known, primarily, for its outstanding achievements in genetic engineering--the source of its primary exports. Its products range from modification in the human genome to tailored 
microorganisms. Part of its success is due to the nature of Jenda genetics and their fresh approach to the field. 
The planet Sysix (Hinterworlds 2935 B623300-B), along the council's spinward edge, serves not only as a major trade world for Hiver goods, but is also supporting extensive Federation trade exploration ventures in Aquila, Tempri, 
and Sontra subsectors. Recently, these missions have had some heated contact with Solomani traders working the spinward sectors, but tensions seemed to have dropped suddenly, without any apparent explanation. (See Challenge 39)

Ithklur Aexzz
The People's Empire is the translated name of this Ithklur empire. It is a Hive Federation client state, and it's most important ally. The Ithklur Aexzz extends across the corners of four sectors - Leonidae,  Extolian, Phlask, and Centrax. It is believed the location is not a coincidence, as the Hiver capital lies well sheilded from humaniti by the position of the Ithklur.
