Dynchia

Race of humans who developed into carnivores.   All tall (2m), with hair as a mane down the back  (both sexes), slimly built. They have a very honor driven society. (See JTAS 24 Contact)

Intelligent minor race of humaniti, native to Melantris. Dynchia are about 2.2m in height and weigh about 100 kg. They are  slender and long-limbed. Skin tones range from pale to bronze-tan; hair  colour is usually brown or black, but snowy white hair is not uncommon.  The Dynchia have six fingers on each hand, and six toes on each foot. Their teeth actually consist of two bony "jaws" (as if their teeth had been fused  into one upper and one lower "jaw") with fang-like extrusions. These  physical differences appear to have been geneered by the Ancients.

As well as the physical divergence, two elements of human psychology (to  protect females from danger, and to possess land) appear to have been left  out of or modified in the Dynchia. Firstly, the Dynchia have absolute  equality of the sexes; prejudice against or protection of one sex is  psychologically impossible. Secondly, a Dynchia is not a citizen of a  particular world; he is a member of a clan, which in turn is a member of a 
tribe. A tribe may rule anywhere, as territory is not important.

The Dynchia have a rare and unusual quality: they are warrior individualists  in an un-warlike culture. That is, they never make war upon their own race,  although fights, duels, and challenges are common, as is a warrior ethic.  Their culture is completely independant of territory. The social basis of  Dynchia mentality is a deep sense of honour, both personal and as part of  their clan or tribe. The general religion of the Dynchia is reverence for 
ancestors and worship of tribal heroes. To be false to one's honour is to  forfeit a chance to become a revered ancestor.

At coming-of-age, all individuals go through an extensive series of trials,  to determine their right to the status of adulthood. Seven percent fail - and  die. Thus, all adults are skilled warriors. The military are merely the cream  of the crop, specialising in combat arts. For this reason, it is generally  considered impossible to conquer a Dynchia world.

Dynchia government is based on councils, each consisting of the top ranking  members of each tribe present. The highest of these councils is the Council of  the Twelve , which rules all of the Comitia , and speaks for all the tribes.  The highest ranking clan of each tribe is the Prince of that tribe, and sits  on the Council . The military is subject only to the Council of the Twelve,  and exempt from responsibility to clan or tribe.

Not only is the Dynchia tech level higher than most TL's in the region, but  the Dynchia have an added advantage - they have refined their designs for  maximum efficiency. They may not have fusion guns, but they have the best 
laser rifles in all of known space, and the same applies of the rest of their  industry.

A low rate of population expansion gives them time to fully develop a world  before they are forced to expand by population pressure. As an example of the  degree of perfection Dynchia designers have achieved, it may be mentioned that  their homeworld, Melantris ( Yuddunn / Leonidae 2733) has a population of over 4 billion, but has no pollution problems. Their architecture is famous for its  beauty and perfection.
(JTAS-24, 1111)
