In the Aslan Hierate this sector is named Weasuirlaoa. 

Touchstone Sector was mostly unvisited and unheralded for most of its history. Located at a remote remove from any major power, far down the Great Rift. Possessing few resources or races that would merit major development, only a few Zhodani and Imperial science expeditions had ever visited the sector. Its worlds were surveyed, cataloged, and pretty much left alone except for an occasional misjump or prospector. 

This changed from about 766, when Ihatei from a vassal clan of Khaukheairl settled on Hwoufeeike (Touchstone 2701). Other settlers followed, but until the Imperial Civil War, settlement came in erratic waves. Most of the colonists were "throwaway" Ihatei that showed little potential or character for advancing their clans interests, or were criminals and outcasts of low status. The only clan that showed any interest in the sector was Hlyueawi, who settled a major pocket of worlds in the spin-coreward quarter of the subsector. Eventually Yerlyaruiwo and Khaukheairl settled and organized the trailing portion as an adjunct to their major holdings in the Trojan Reach and Riftspan. 

The Imperial Civil War renewed interest in the sector, though it mostly brought additional Hierate guttertrash denied any honor in invading the Domain of Deneb or Reaver's Deep. These Aslan laid claim to many of the unsettled worlds between the Hlyueawi and trailing pockets, establishing mini-kingdoms based upon crime and piracy. A number of them were used as auxiliary troops and privateers by clans advancing into neighboring Beyond, where they made contacts with human pirate and criminal organisations such as the Devil Pups, the genesis of the later Enterprise. 

The Collapse brought a new flood tide of refugees into the sector, and into conflict with the local "New Lords". Led by Aokhalte, these clans annihilated the Hlyueawi and overran the minor "pirate" holdings, leading to a savage interclan war that strained the limits of the Honor Code. Indigenous and earlier arrived clans, being mostly dishonored Aslan anyway, often fought with dishonorable tactics, prompting a response in kind from the newcomers. Eventually, the two groups began to merge and conmingle. Hlyueawi pulled off its miraculous return to the Tlaukhu, in large part through unscruplous dealings with "bandit" clans and other Tlaukhu members. The period of adjustment, negotiation and petty war led to a current division of power in the sector, that is more fixed than would be normal for Aslan. 

Dominant Tlaukhu clans dominate regions with clear de facto boundaries that keep out most of their rivals. The primary powers are: 
1. Syoisius, which took over most of Hlyueawi's coreward holdings. 
2. Aokhalte, which is scattered between subsectors A, C, E and G 
3. Tralyeaeawi, which maintains its powerbase in coreward Hiryarloah (C) and parts of Eietorl Easea' (D) and continues to prosecute its feud with Syoisius and Aokhalte. 
4. Seieakh, with most of its holdings in trailing A Ekhyolyooul (E) subsector. 
5. Hlyueawi, concentrated in A Ekhyolyooul, continuing its improbable comeback at the expense of its nemesis, Aokhalte. 
6. Khaukheairl, whose main power center is in the calm island of Eietorl Easea' and Ikairleah (H) subsectors 
7. A number of independent clan coalitions scattered in the cracks between major factions. 

Another growing power in the sector are a consortium of semi-independent pirate and privateer bands, both Aslan and human, that have found a niche within the border regions between the balkanised territories of the feuding clans. Always a condescended yet tolerated part of Aslan society, the skyrocketed demand for irregular troops and "dark alley" operations in the local clan wars has given them considerable economic legitimacy. Some pirate clans have even managed to crack the customary glass ceiling, reentering mainstream Aslan society, though usually with their criminal activities well hidden behind a veil of legitimate business and "honorable" behavior. Many clans, primarily the Syoisius and the Hlyueawi, actively patronise these bandits, finding them an effective tool against their rivals.
