

Howarth  is a  small world  with  a  relatively high  population (  700 million )  and a good tech  level ( TL13 ).  The pressure of population and  the  continous  water  shortage  as  led  to  a clear governmental objective,  and a  significant  importance  being placed  on ordinances related to  movement, housing, and  water use. As  a result while the government is entrusted to a competent President the real power lies in the Bects, or courts. These are  drawn from a judicial profession which Howarthi can elect to enter from  age 30, subject to passing a rigorous socio-ethical examination and legal  apprenticeship. The average age of Becten  is  45,  and  they  are  well  regarded  by the majority of the population, due to their near  ideal balance of experience, good sense, and  relative  youth.  It  is  this  trust  in  the Becten that enables Howarthi to live easily with the prevalent  extreme law  level. The Howartian jungles are the original home of the Vesu gliders.

Vesu
The  Vesu is  a native  of Howarth  in Dashinshaii  Subsector. Vesu are small ( 1kg  ) gliders that evolved in the  few rainforests and jungles of their homeworld. Vesu are able  to soar in the jungles many thermals for hours at a time, their small size enabling them to avoid collisions in the dense supergrowth. A filter by nature the Vesu has a large front "mouth" which sweeps any particles in its path into its gut. Vesu offer little real threat  to sentients, although they will  usually attempt a "sweep" on the food source and  their tough frontal horn has been known to penetrate  mesh. Vesu are usually  found in small flocks  of 6 to 20 creatures, mostly  in the upper reaches  of the forest, just  below the canopy. Vesu eggs are easily mistaken  for blue hued amber like jewels, and  it  was  this  that  led  to  their  spreading  across much of the Gushemege heartland.  Vesu eggs are  still used for  decoration but are now first sterilised with UV light. There is also a keen market in fake Vesu eggs.


