
    Kukhun

    Kukhun is  the home of the  Lancian culture. The planet  was originally
    seeded by  the Ancients with human  stock about 300,000 years  ago. The
    Kukhunen had  a tempestuous relationship  with the Vilani,  and found a
    common ally in the S'mrii. As Kukhun slipped into the Long Night it was
    faced with the twin threats of a bloody civil war and a new ice age. It
    was out of this perilous situation  that the Lancian Movement arose and
    managed to bring about peace and start planning for survival in the new
    ice age.


    Lancian Cultural Region

    Tansa subsector lies at the centre  of the Lancian Cultural Region, and
    contains the Lancian home, Kukhun. The Lancian culture developed during
    the  Long  Knight  and  stresses   the  importance  of  creativity  and
    contribution.  Creativity   is  evident  in   the  art,  pacifism   and
    originality  of  Lancian  culture.  Lancian  artistry  and  originality
    accounts for Lancia's dominant  position within Imperial entertainment,
    and  its strong  bonds with  Makhidkarun and  the S'mrii.  The ethic of
    contribution  is  reflected  in  peripheral  fields  like  the  endemic
    medianet and the high degree  of participation in Lancian society. Most
    importantly it underpins the whole  of Lancian economics, and the trust
    on  which the  extreme socialist  syustem is  based. Travellers  to the
    region would  be well advised  to read up  on Lancian economics  before
    venturing  into  the  area.  For  the  historically minded the Cultural
    Region was formally established in 639 by Empress Arbellatra, partly as
    a thank-you for the regions support to  her during the Civil War. Other
    major centres of Lancian culture in Tansa are Raoh and Shiramuunir.

 Paatissa

    The dominant early aminist religion of  Kukhun. The word also refers to
    the people of that religion, and the body of oral law that defined. The
    most  prominent dieties  were Laancia,  the goddess  of the  sun and of
    creation, and  Viinntaala the goddess of  Kukhun and the mother  of the
    Kukhunen.


    Viinntaala Rocks

    In the  mythology of the  Kukhunen Viinntaala was  a goddess who  would
    descend to Kukhun  in ursine form. Legend has it  that she would wander
    the woods  and tundra wastes to  see how the Kukhunen  were progressing
    and  to  check  that  they  were  keeping  the  Paatissa laws. Faithful
    Paatissa knew that the bear that  stalked their land was Viinntaala and
    left her alone. But those who had  lost their faith feared the bear and
    would hide  their children from it  and then attack it.  The bear would
    kill them  for their unfaithfulness.  But Viinntaala would  be sorrowed
    that they had lost  their way and that she had had  to kill them and so
    she would  turn her ursine  self to  stone  and return her  soul to the
    heavens. These large lonely rocks which Viinntaala left became sites of
    worship for the  Paatissa, and often villages would  be built close by,
    the rocks serving  as a reminder that the Paatissa  laws should be kept
    and that Viinntaala may one day visit  and put their faith to the test.
    Needless to say contemporary geologist claim that the rocks are nothing
    but simple erratics left behind by the last ice age on Kukhun.
