GELORNAMITE/MASSALIA DATE: 119-1122 
Formal declarations of war were exchanged today between the AutoMech Ltd Bloc and the Tarnasse Industramation Group here on violence-plagued Gelornamite. 
Once a peaceful, prosperous planet, Gelornamite's decline into bitter internecine strife began late last year, when the Development Council -- comprised of the chairpersons of the planet's eight leading firms -- became seriously divided over industrial and economic strategies. 
In particular, Sagata Arms and Procurement Associates announced its decision to break from the "standardized arms approach" that is still the accepted norm within the Imperium. 
Citing the ongoing breakup of the Imperium, Sagata Chairman Sharda Sorku observed, "The only standards that we should be worrying about are those which will serve to optimize our local defensive capabilities, not some antiquated concept of technological universality -- a concept which recent events have made extraneous." 
Sorku's comments refer to the widespread adherence to Imperial Data Package designs as the standard for widely used designs of weapons, vehicles and heavy equipment. 
While use of IDP designs has never been required or urged by the Imperium, most member-systems have used these data packages as blueprints for the production of crucial systems. 
In addition to being very user-friendly and well-supported with supplementary programs and inexpensive industrial start-up packages, most worlds have found that the use of IDPs aids their economies by enabling them to be conversant with, and capable of meeting, the maintenance and equipment needs of most visiting starships and crews. 
Calling Sorku's comments "isolationistic and economically perilous," Head Councillor Tayla Hai-Lei moved to quell any attempts to depart from the use of IDPs, particularly in the area of personal weapons. 
Sorku rallied other corporations to his cause, however, creating a political alliance known as the AutoMech Ltd Bloc. Sorku's initial desire to terminate production of 7mm and 9mm ACRs and instead shift to a unique 8.2mm general purpose weapon expanded into wider departures from Gelornamite's traditional IDP-biased industrial strategies. 
The Tarnasse Industramation group -- led by the late Hai-Lei's successor, Gatta Ndompo -- received the bloc's official notification of secession three days ago. The group immediately commenced operations to occupy the bloc's major production centers. Bloc troops -- armed with the new 8.2mm ACRs -- halted these offensives after taking heavy casualties. 
Head Councillor Ndompo is said to have put in a request for immediate assistance from Margaret's Imperial forces. [Challenge 54] 

