IRIM/FORNAST DATE: 210-1122 
Starport Authority security forces today barely managed to contain and control widespread violence between a group of independent merchants and members of a brokers' guild. The incident -- which at its height involved at least 40 crewmembers from merchantmen, 50 brokers and associates, and 20 Starport Authority security personnel -- is without local precedent and has shocked the mercantile community of the planet. 
Fourteen persons were hospitalized with serious injuries, and another 20 were treated for minor injuries at the scene. 
Although accounts conflict, the cause of the melee is said to be a disagreement over tacit trading agreements and rights. Apparently, three independent merchants were attemting to sell individual items directly to interested parties at wholesale prices. This is not the customery means whereby merchants trade, depending instead upon large lots of goods sold with the aid of a broker. 
Reportedly, several brokers noticed this irregular "indepedent" sales activity and began arguing with the merchants, accusing them of violating a "traditional understanding" between merchants and brokers. The merchants allegedly responded that they 'weren't breaking any laws" and continued to conduct their business. The brokers attempted to interfere with their operations, and angry words led to a general brawl, which drew in nearby allies of both groups. 
Although the Starport Authority security forces haven't brought any charges against either group, Chief Iislag Romor commented that he "can understand why brokers got so hot under the collar." "After all," he said, "if merchants don't make their sales through the brokers, the brokers will have no way of doing business. If the merchants don't understand that, I'm afraid we'll have another incident like this one -- worse, maybe." 
The Irim Incident is only the most dramatic of many such occurences with have begun to erupt throughout the Imperium over the past six months. Reports of friction between merchants and brokers are widespread. 
Market experts suggest that the reason for this new contentiousness is because of the general state of economic decline prevalent in most areas of the Imperium. With cargoes becoming harder to find, merchants are trying to get the most money for their wares. Many do this by selling their goods at wholesale prices, thereby increasing their base revenues without having to pay a broker's percentage. 
Most frequently, this practice is observed in conjunction with the sale of high-tech items that are no longer available in the area of sale. Consequently, market prices on such products are beginning to climb in areas which have never had much -- or have lost -- industrial capacity. [Challenge 55] 
