PHORU/OLD EXPANSES DATE: 003-1122 
After several weeks of confused and often conflicting reports, it appears that yesterday's resounding defeat of two Solomani CruRons in this system is simply the last in a string of major setbacks for the Confederation's fortunes in this subsector. 
A sizable attacking force apparently jumped in-system on 001-1122, overwhelming Solomani SDB defenses near the gas giant closest to the mainworld. 
The two Solomani CruRons on close orbital station immediately sortied in response. However, before the planetside escorts (under repair and refit at the time) could boost into orbit to fill the defensive gap left by the CruRons, approximately a dozen Imperial SDBs emerged from the equatorial seas just south of this planet's capital. 
Precision fire from these orbiting defense boats either disabled the planetbound Solomani escorts or compelled their crews to abandon the hulls in drydock. 
The Solomani CruRons continued toward contact with the hostile elements and engaged a comparable force of Imperial vessels. Minutes into this battle, a flight of outdated Imperial SDBs and interceptors emerged from the gas giant, vectoring into the rear of the Solomani CruRons. 
Two damaged 45,000-ton Solomani cruisers eventually surrendered to the attackers. The other Solomani ships were destroyed. 
Although the population of Phoru largely assumes the attacking force was Margaret's, TNS reporters located on commercial vessels have evidence to the contrary. Throughout the battle, fragmentary transponder code emmissions were detected from several ships of the attacking force. The coding of two of these vessels would suggest that they are elements last known to be attached to the 22nd Imperial Fleet. The 22nd Fleet has been listed as missing since 073-1121, although several partial sightings have been reported since then. [Challenge 53] 


R'TINH KILLS/CORRIDOR DATE: 003-1122 
Ziru Sirkaa authorities here refused to provide a new transponder for the indepent seeker KeLiananae Tourz Agud, known previously as Jewel of Corridor, on the grounds that such a change would imply an act of sedition. 
An official of the Makhidkarun bureau stated, "It is the official policy of the Ziru Sirkaa that astrographic names used by occupying forces may not be substituted for legitimate astrographic names officially accepted by the AAB and naval forces. In this case, the accepted equivalent in the Logaksu dialect is Raughantz. The Imperial designation Corridor is also acceptable, though the Vilani-preferred name for the sector is Amshagi." 
The official admitted that occupying Vargr forces have been applying the name Llananae Tourz (translated as "Devoured Sector") to the sector since 1118. 
The KeLiananae Tourz Agud's owner, Gordon Irakalkigka, told reporters, "From now on, my ship will be known as the Bureaucrat's Nightmare." [Challenge 53] 

