ANAXIAS/DELPHI DATE: 078-1122 
After a conspicuous two-day absence from her open court, Margaret announced today that the "mystery fleet" responsible for defeating several major Solomani thrusts in the Old Expanses Sector has been identified. 
It is the 22nd Imperial Fleet (formerly stationed at Depot/Diaspora), most of the 93rd Imperial Fleet, and elements of the 1092nd and 1101st reserve fleets, under the command of Admiral Devon McTavish (who is operating under the authority of IRIS). 
Following her unscheduled announcement, Margaret officially presented IRIS's high regent -- Garran Trainor-Hughes -- to her court and ministers. Rumors suggest that Trainor-Hughes arrived in system only three days ago and has been in closed-session meetings with the domain leadership since then. 
Sources close to Margaret claim that she and Trainor-Hughes were closely associated during her early years at Strephon's court. 
Other intimates of the throne indicate that the high regent's arrival was not welcomed by various high-ranking Vermene officers, who stated that IRIS had no authority under which to command fleet assets. 
In response, Trainor-Hughes is said to have invoked the regency's first mandate, which states that in event of an Imperial interregnum, IRIS is empowered to "take any actions necessary to the fulfillment of its custodial responsibilities as regent pro tem, until such time as a legal heir is located and confirmed." He dismissed assertions that this aspect of the regency's first mandate was a ceremonial formality. 
The Vermane, the in-house intelligence organization of Tukera Lines, has served Margaret at the behest of her husband, Tukera owner Blaine Tukera. Sources say Margaret has little esteem for the Vermene's methods and personnel, but she has evinced a grudging respect for IRIS over the years, calling it "the only intelligence organization that has a conscience, as well." 
During a brief statement before Margaret's court, Trainor-Hughes asserted that the recent actions of the regency's modest naval assets are not to be construed as an indication that IRIS has declared for Margaret, rather, they are simply evidence of the regency's ongoing efforts to defend what is left of the Imperium against further aggression. [Challenge 53] 
