Nakulakak sector (called Diaspora today) was only thinly settled by the Vilani Grand Empire of the Stars.  When the Vilani came into contact with the Terran Confederation, further development of the area was attempted, but it was (as characterized by one Terran general) "too little, too late".  Attempts to use it as a buffer zone only made it easier for Confederation forces to conquer large portions of it, and eventually the Vilani started trading away sections of the sector in hopes of appeasing the Terrans.

The Terran Confederation, as part of a policy of cultural domination coupled with military domination, embarked on a massive resettlement and colonization effort.  It was at this time that the sector became known as Diaspora, taking its new name from the "diaspora" of Terrans that eventually colonized the sector.

The Long Night affected this area as it did the rest of the Rule of Man, but here, as occasionally happened elsewhere, a small group of planets was able to band together and maintain a tenuous hold on interstellar travel and trade.  The Union of Sufren was thus able to profit from contact with Cleon Zhunatsu's Third Imperium, and was incorporated into it in 330, bringing additional prosperity as one of the main routes between the Imperial capital and the homeworld of humaniti.

With the start of the Rebellion, Diaspora found itself at the frontier of four factions: Daibei, Margaret's Imperium, Lucan's Imperium, and the Solomani Confederation.  Repeated Solomani offensives aimed at cutting Imperial supply lines to rimward have had a profound effect on the sector.  Gradually, the intensity of military action lessened and targets were chosen more selectively; by 1123, nevertheless, much of the rimward portion of the sector was in ruins.  By 1129, none of the major factions exercises any significant amount of control over the area, although Margaret, Daibei, and the Solomani still have significant influence in the area.

There are several traffic patterns in Diaspora sector; these have become even more important during the Rebellion than they were during the prosperous era of a single interstellar government in the region.

Astrography
-----------
The ALURZAN LOOP connects 46 worlds in the sector via Jump 1; it is centered in the Alurza subsector and is the key to controlling the sector.  In the Rebellion era, it also provides the only bridge between coreward and rimward areas that is not in the Wilds.

The EBERLY CORRIDOR is the only non-Wilds route between the Imperial core and Solomani Rim.  It is centered in The Blight subsector, next to the Eberly Gap.  The corridor takes its name from the single planet that dominates the corridor; Eberly maintains a policy of strict neutrality and bars warships of recognized powers from travelling the corridor (through the efforts of a sizeable force of mercenaries of its own).  Tariffs and port/refueling fees are high in order to support the mercenaries and maintain their neutral status.

The LIBERT MAIN represents a Jump-2 extension of the Alurzan Loop. It extends from Libert to Kushga subsectors.

The CUMBER MAIN in Hijiri subsector is almost as important as the Alurzan Loop; it connects 42 worlds in the four rim/spinward subsectors of the sector.  There are still several high-grade starports along it; this results in high traffic, high mercenary activity, and lots of politics.

The KHAVLE MAIN represents Diaspora's connection to Margaret's Domain; as such, it is the primary route for both the Doom Trade from the sector to the Safe, and the remaining high-tech trade from Vaward in the Old Expanses sector.  


Politics
--------
The VASSALRY JUDICIATE is an expansionist polity acting in opposition to the Union of Sufren, the Khavle Accordment, and the Alurzan Cartel. Its origins are in the wars of succession and control resulting from Lucan's gutting of the Moot.  The Judiciate is based at Backman, which supplies TL12 troops for operations in Sufren and Alurza subsectors. Hervestia supplies Judiciate troops at TL7 to TL9 for operations elsewhere.

The KHAVLE ACCORDMENT exists solely because of its location astride the trade route from the Union of Sufren to Margaret's Domain.  It has no central government to speak of, and military action on the Accordment's part is in response to outside provocation, and rarely outside the boundaries.

The ALURZAN CARTEL is a (overgrown) trade association with no centralized government, and no facilities for starship maintenance and repair.  It is currently embroiled in internal problems, most of which are provoked by the Vassalry Judiciate.

The UNITY OF PROMISE is interested in survival, period. Its troops, whether native or mercenary, are never deployed outside the Unity's boundaries.  Their biggest single concern (of a host of important concerns) is the threat from the Solomani.

The CUMBERAN CONFEDERATION renounced its membership in the Solomani Confederation, and is therefore a target for hostile operations by Solomani proxies.  They maintain TL12 lift troops, which they have used outside their borders in support of anti-Solomani operations. The Cumberan Confederation has a large population of Vegan refugees, and has exchanged ambassadors with the Aslan and Duke Craig in Daibei. It is actively attempting to expand its external links with polities that can be presumed to oppose Solomani expansionism, against the day that Solomani forces move against Cumber.

The NEW ORDER VIGILANCE ALLIANCE is a Solomani puppet state set up by Solomani Security to oppose the Cumberan Confederation.  The people of the Alliance are not enthusiastic about either the  existance of the Alliance or its domination by Solomani Security, and as a result, the morale of the troops (equipped at TL8) is low.

The DUWAMISH LEAGUE is heavily supported by the Cumberan Confederation in order to assure a trade route to trailing; even so, its long-term viability is in doubt.  Its biggest asset is the naval facility at Alki, which was abandoned by Lucan's forces at the end of the Black War phase of the Rebellion.




Sufren Subsector
----------------
Political strife in the subsector is dominated by the rivalry between the Vassalry Judiciate and the Union of Sufren.  This rivalry dates back to  the early days of settlement of the area, and, though quiescent during the Imperial era, it has once again become prominent.

The Union of Sufren maintains ties with Margaret's Domain and cordial relations with the Federation of Daibei.  Regular contact with the Khavle Accordment is also part of Union policy.  The Union has maintained comparatively high technology, and possesses a number of crack military units.  Coupled with an efficient internal economy, these features make the Union of Sufren a stable and potentially powerful polity in the post-Imperial era.

The Vassalry Judiciate, dominated by Backman, maintains no relations with other powers.  Judiciate foreign policy focusses on absorption of weaker and less stable polities, with current targets being the Alurzan Cartel and the Khavle Accordment.  The Judiciate has a large commercial and industrial center, and has the potential to be a significant post-Imperial power, but infighting among the member worlds prevents this potential from being exercised.

Khavle Subsector
----------------
The Khavle Accordment is the most significant post-Imperial government in the subsector.  This doesn't say much, as there is little centralized control; the Accordment is really a set of trade and mutual defense agreements negotiated between the rulers of the three major member planets.

The Accordment is the main customer of Medora's shipyards, and maintains  cordial (though currently strained) relations with Margaret's Domain and with the Union of Sufren.

Narquel Subsector
-----------------
The Narquel Subsector is defended by 298th Fleet. 

