                           MANDANIN CO-DOMINION

 The Mandanin Co-Dominion arose as the result of a combination of a mutant
strain of Danin and a religious revival. The initial impetus is now wearing off
and internal factions are beginning to crystallise.
The Danin are a warm-blooded, four limbed race of vaguely reptilian aspect.
Each Danin is tri-sexual, the various sexual phases of the ne's life. The
order is Egg (thet), Subadult (ken), Male (nit), Female (ten), and Senior (een)
Humans have taken to using the Danin words for the separate phases and the
pronoun for any Danin in general (ne).
 Developed form a social type of Gatherer, the ability of the post reproductive
phase of Seniors (een) to settle conflicts between different packs without
violence speeded up the course of civilisation among Danin. Though technical
progress was not as rapid as comparable races, planetary-wide social units were
achieved at a relatively early stage. Progress in biological and social
sciences was also somewhat more advanced that standard technical levels would
indicate. Initial contact by the Sa'Dintinn Company was quiet peaceful. The
basic philosophy of the major Danin beliefs were very tolerant in relationships
with other sentient species. Mutually beneficial projects were quickly arranged
and within decades, small colonies composed of Danin and Human were flourishing
on nearby planets. With their greater skill in the life sciences, the Danin
found it relatively easy to establish self-supporting ecosystems with a minimum
of time and material. This ability freed a greater proportion of the Human
component to concentrate on industrial development. Cooperative colonies
quickly spread over the surrounding systems into adjacent Subsectors.
 For most of the history of this association, the attitude of the component
members toward outside entities was non-aggressive. Some two centuries ago, a
minor religious-political cult on Kalradin (Mandin - 0416) underwent an almost
explosive expansion for as yet incompletely understood reasons. The cult had a
most efficient and aggressive attitude toward conversion and expansion.
At about the same time a mutant strain of Danin arose with a lesser fertility
rate and a greater physical size, speed, and strength. With a lesser
reproductive drive, the energy of this variant Danin turned outward with a more
aggressive attitude towards outside dominance. While this strain normally would
not be significant in numbers due to the lower fertility, it was deliberately
bred for. It seems that the neighbouring state to Trailing was exerting extreme
political pressure on adjacent portions of the Human-Danin colonised areas. The
Human-Danin choose to resist that pressure with military force.
 The Danin proved not to be very adept at space manoeuvre of combat. The new
strain proved an adept warrior on land and so was bred in great numbers.
This freed large numbers of Humans for space duty since the Danin now formed
the home defence forces and the assault landing teams. Soon several sharp
clashes proved the efficiency of this arrangement and the pressure from
Trailing areas ceased.
 Now there were large numbers of unemployed warriors; the Humans among whom the
expansionist sentiment was prominent, and the Danin who also had an
expansionist element of warriors. These factions forced a political
reorganisation with a more rigid central authority based upon the military
command structure recently set up. Clashes with the Krax Confederation and
Marlan Primate soon occurred. A few local successes were scored but further
expansion would take more resources than the bulk of the essentially
non-aggressive Danin and Humans were willing to provide.
 During the subsequent operations much greater opposition was encountered from
both the opponents and the basically conservative internal structure. The Danin
developed a new strain of their species which was closer in biology and
attitudes to the basic stock, but was much more adapted to space conditions.
Emphasis on breeding the warrior strain was switched to the spacer strain. Over
the same time period, the Kalradnist cult lost much of its internal cohesion
and developed several divergent factions.
 At the present time, the higher levels of the government and military services
are filled with adherents of the former aggressive and expansionist philosophy.
The lower and mid levels have a much more cooperative and conciliatory attitude
towards their neighbours.
Imperial policy toward the Mandanin Co-Dominion is to placate the high levels
of authority, stall for time, and encourage advancement in the mid level to
positions of greater authority
