Dark Nebula

Astrography of Dark Nebula Sector:

The aslan homeworldlies at the very edge of Aslan space, rather than in the middle of a sphere of influenceas is more common with starfaring major races. (The Vilani spread mostly in one direction because of the limitations of jump-1 drive, but for most others the stars were more evenly spread.) Most agree that this is becauseAslan developed jump drive relatively late, and found that humans had already claimed most of the worlds to coreward and trailing of kusyu.

It is noteworthy that in order to expand in the direction left open to them, Aslan had to develop jump-2 almostimmediately after inventing jump drive. Many small clusters of Aslan worlds would be isolated with only jump-1 drive available.

Interstellar Governments

The Aslan Hierate controls about half of the worlds in Dark Nebula sector. The other major government is the Solomani Confederacy, controlling the trailing quarter of the sector. These two trade actively, but diplomatic relations are sometimes strained. Most of the remaining worlds are non-aligned, with every possible attitude toward each other and their  larger neighbors. Two small federations, the Ulane Hierate in Earle subsector and the Gerontocracy of ormine in Akhlare subsector complete the tally.

Gerontocracy of Ormine: Small interstellar government primarily found in the Akhlare subsector. The Ormine are a very long-lived minor race with some characteristics resembling Terran reptiles.  Their metabolism is slow, with a minimal homeothermic response to keep them from actually freezing.
Ormine are upright, short-legged bipeds with a short, flat tail for balance. Their arms are also relatively short, and the hands partly webbed. They are covered with jointed plates rather like the armor of a Terran armadillo. Their origin was obviously aquatic, and they retain several adaptations that make them at home in the water, including gills which open and activate upon diving.
The Ormine lifespan is about 300 standard years, with maturity coming at 30 standard years. The elders of a community are its leaders, and serve for life once chosen. Understandably, Ormine culture is slow-moving and very conservative. On their own, they have never developed past tech level 8.
Solomani arrival 3,000 years agowas a severe cultural shock. Solomani spacers were impatient with the deliberate movements of the councils that negotiated with them, while the Ormine for the most part though the Solomani rude, impatient, and thoughtless.
Human technological superiority, hoever, was undeniable. This attracted some few younger Ormine minds. With every human visit, some ormine took passage to new worlds. Colonies grew up on several suitable planets and some unsuitable ones. The Solomani supplied technology to conquer to the inhospitable worlds in exchange for work contracts and pledges of loyalty. Thus most of the gerontocracy is deeply in debt to the Solomani, and is part of their political sphere.
The Ormine retain their rule by elders, but those elders usually have a human "advisor." Any who express disapproval of this too strongly may find themselves exiled to one of the less pleasant worlds.

Ulane: A minor race of Earle subsector, who received a few jump-capable ships from the Aslan about 800 Aslan (-1385 Imperial). They originated as flying quadrupeds, but their wings are now vestigal, converted to manipulative digits. Ulane are less than one meter long, hollow-bones, and delicate. their diet consists primarily of fruit, since they require a lot of sugar to sustain their high body temperatures and activity levels. Small animals and insects provide protein. Ulane are adapted to warm climates, but are able to build dwellings that enable them to live anywhere -- although they seldom prefer to.
The Ulane social structure is built on clans of related families, so that when the Aslan contacted them, the Ulane decided to emulate their benefactors and model their society along Aslan lines. To the Aslan, this attempt has met with only moderate success. Ulane are not at all combative, and their ideas of honor puzzle the aslan exceedingly. The hierarchy of clan and family dominance was decided by vote shortly after contact, and can be changed the same way, rather than by competition and combat. Still, the structure is useful to the Ulane.
Ulane prefer to live in very small, scattered towns. Most of theor worlds have less than one million population owing to the low birthrate and need for large foraging territories. A larger populationon a Ulane world indicates that another race lives there also, usually in a non-competing niche.
With their few ships, the Ulane explored several worlds in their subsector and coreward into Reaver's Deep sector. However, they found most worlds less hospitable than their homeworld, Ul (0603). Since they could neither build or maintain the ships on their own, Ulane expansion soon stopped, and Aslan expansion flowed on around them.
Aslan and Ulane live together cooperatively on some worlds. The Ulane are known for artistic rather than technological endeavors, and it is these which the Aslan prize when trading with them.
