EXETER/DIASPORA (2729 B769895-F) DATE: 063-1125 
Officials of the Exeter Federated Shipbuilders today announced the establishment of a new program to ease the burden of commerce raiding that has plagued the war-torn Diaspora Sector. The naval architects of Exeter's several noted shipbuilding firms will cooperate in creating sets of standardized, simplified plans for the conversion of commercial ships to military purposes, which will be distributed throughout the Diaspora Sector, but without the usual architect's fees attached. 
"People and organizations should be aware of this project so that they can take advantage of it, and it's crucial that they are aware that there is no additional cost involved to using these plans," said spokesperson Andelin Taro. "The use of these plans should allow savings from standardization which will permit the optimal use of this Sector's already strained resources," she continued. 
When asked how Exeter's yards could afford to distribute these plans, which will create business for competing shipyards, Taro explained, "We can't afford not to. The trade situation in this Sector must be stabilized. The destruction of existing shipping does not create a greater demand for the construction of new hulls. On the contrary, it destroys any ability to generate the money to pay for new construction, and that's bad for everybody, because there is no trade." 
In addition to simplifying the arming of existing vessels, this program will encourage the completion of surplus incoomplete starship hulls as military vessels for use by local governments and starmerc units. A number of hulls have been left uncompleted because of the bankruptcy of their original buyers, and because they are unsuitable for the dangerous environment currently characterizing the Diaspora Sector. Typical of these are the over two dozen unfinished Type M Liners throughout the sector, conceived for a peacetime market, now abandoned in the face of the continued factional raiding and piracy. 
The Federated Shipbuilders hope to have the full set of plans available in six months. They will then be distrubted to all worlds requestingthem, with the only cost being that of daa shipment expenses to the destination world. [Challenge 61] 

