Lair Protectorate

The Lair Protectorate is a loose coalition of 9 worlds in Provence sector centered around the Vargr "homeworld," Lair (2402 Provence). The majority of Vargr hold little or no reverence toward their  homeworld, especially since the introduction of the Solomani Hypothesis and proof that the Vargr race was transported to Lair by the Ancients. As the birthplace of Vargr civilization and technology, however, Lair is still a fairly important world.
Once a member of the ailing Empire of Varroerth, Lair declared its independence in 777 Imperial, carrying the neighboring worlds of Firgvaar, Khvhaargvaetsoerrgh, Kaarlag, Zhorvrn, and Fraets-Vog with it. These worlds are among the first worlds settled by the Vargr race. All have a long tradition of independence that went contrary to membership in the Empire of Varroerth. Over the intervening years, three more worlds, Zargvaetsr, 
Aertsvad, and Oeghzvar joined the Protectorate.
Embracing everything that is truly Vargr, the Lair Protectorate is based on the basic precepts of charisma and responsible change (called chaos by some humans). Leaders, customs, organizations, and laws change on a constant, 
continuous basis. The Empire of Varroerth, represented by Regional Governor Ghaarkts Faegzag, tries to ignore the Protectorate which, with its high technology and tradition-minded fervor, would certainly triumph in any reasonable version of a civil war. All in all, the Empire of Varroerth simply refuses to recognize the Lair Protectorate's existence, and the Lair Protectorate consequently refuses to recognize the Empire of Varroerth.
The Protectorate seemed doomed to dissolution in the first decade of the 1100s with the death of ruler Fanadae Aegon. Civil unrest rose to frightening proportions on Lair Itself, and political scientists feared the Protectorate would collapse. A new administration led by reform-minded Ulurs Otsunga has recently provided a stabilizing influence, however; hope for the Protectorate has been rekindled. 

Eventually, the Empire became so large that power shifted from the emperor to the regional governors. The position of emperor became a figurehead, with little charisma. This enabled the formation of the Lair Protectorate 
in 777. 
Promising a return to traditional Vargr values, 6 worlds, including Lair declared their independence from the Empire of Varroerth. 4 more worlds later joined as charisma and "responsible change" once again became more important than perpetuating a stagnant monarchy. The Empire just shrugged and ignored the Protectorate. The Protectorate ignored the Empire in return.
 

The Ref'iib
This progressive and enterprising young alien race has managed to turn it's biological handicaps into a thriving civilization. Native to the planet Ruies (0420 Ngathksirz), they have evolved to fill an ecological position normally filled by saprophytic organisms. A passive and peaceable species, they have built up to pre-stellar technology on their steppe filled homeworld.
The Ref'iib are a carbon based, warm blooded species. They are diurnal, and although not a speedy species, these herbivores manage to remain near the top of the world's food chain. They eat any plant based material, and the slow digestive system is designed for rotting vegitation. They walk upright, with six limbs on a bilateral symmetrical frame. The two legs end in a running hoof, and both sets of arms end in hands with four fingers and two opposable digits. They are covered by what can best be described as a feathery layer, 'vividly' colored in various browns and greens. Having a  natural camoflage, they are also differentiated by pheremones. An almost human like head is topped by a six inch spear-like horn on males of the species. They are a tall and lightly built - averaging 6'3" in height, and  147 pounds in weight.
The species has an advanced immune system. Their bodies heal quite  rapidly. They posses an acute vision with their two eyes. Night vision is  offset with color blindness. They have a normal, human range speech center,  but have poor hearing. Their senses of taste and smell are highly advanced,  but as with beings who eat rotting plants, their definitions of what tastes  good differ considerably from human norm. Items that may be highly poisonous to a human may just be 'spicy' to the Ref'iib. The mouth is filled with  many, small blunt teeth. Their feathery covering leaves them with only a  fair tactile sense, but their well developed minds posses both an absolute sense of direction, and a built in magnetic compass.  
As with most herbivores, the Ref'iib are herd based. This very gregarious species is hermaphrodytic, with only the dominant members of the herd being able to reproduce. The race has full control over their reproduction. After gestation, the give live birth to many, fairly well developed young. The  young require little commitment, and mature in about six years. They live  to about 110 years. Although they are herbavores, they have an empathy to all animals, including those carnivorous ones. The Ref'iib are a fearless race, remaining cool and composed even during crisis, although they are highly distractable, and very forgetful.
The Ref'iib have built a society based around the principles of democracy. Theirs is almost Athenian in style, and this stubborn, unyeilding race is unlikely to change its makeup. They remain cool towards other races. Maybe this trait is the result of being landlocked amidst the Vargr, but they  aren't xenophobic. They remain humble in their veiw of their place in the  galaxy. Almost half of the planet's population belong to their main religion, which meets in a formal service once a week. It is a peaceful religion,  promising reincarnation based off one's karma, and a remote monotheistic god.

Empire of Varroerth
The Empire of Varroerth is a large multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. It is the largest and oldest Vargr state in the Extents. Based in Ngathksirz sector, with its capital on Varroerth, the Empire is ruled primarily from its twenty regional governorships. Culture, like the  government within the Empire, varies to quite an extent.
26 years after Cleon announced the birth of the Third Imperium, the Empire  of Varroerth was founded. Varroerth was a Vargr of great charisma. Starting  in Ngathksirz, his forces gobbled up the surrounding star systems and  eventually expanded into other sectors. Continued expansion fueled the  Empire's prosperity for several centuries. Until 777, the Empire included the Vargr homeworld of Lair. As time rolls on, worlds come into and exit the Empire, and Lair was no exception.
Current expansion occurs at the Empire's frontier. Areas towards the Third Imperium, Tuglikki, Provence, and Windhorn, have been added recently. Other areas showing promise are the sectors of Ksinanirz and Zao Kfeng Ig Grilokh. Expansion is at the direction of the regional governors, and some have proven themselves more competent than others. Military strife has been known to occur between governors, much to the Emperor's displeasure.
There are several corsair groups with quite a bit of power operating inside the Empire. The corsairs are given right to exist as long as they pay homage to the Emperor and what the Empire represents. All members of the Empire remain dedicated to the proposition of a charasmatic emperor, even while maintaining their own unique cultures, societies, and customs.

Odzgoegh Subsector
-------------------
The Odzgoegh subsector contains 11 worlds with a total population of 6.190 billion. The highest population is at Afoug, with 6.146 billion. The highest tech level is B at Afoug and Agh, while the lowest 
is 2 at Bhogsakha. The population comprises about 96% Vargr, and 4% other races. Most of these are Empire of Varroerth worlds, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest  Vargr state in the Extents. 
Empire of Varroerth worlds are a part of the province from Ruevoga  subsector, ruled from the capital at Bhabraehzakh. It also rules worlds  in the Dhaendzouts subsector. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Kfirzin Subsector
-------------------
The Kfirzin subsector contains 7 worlds with a total population of 14.936 billion. The highest population is at Khaghiell, with 14.791 billion. The highest tech level is D at Khaghiell, while the lowest is 2 at Oudugh. The population comprises about 97% Vargr, and 3% other races.
Most of these are Empire of Varroerth worlds, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. These worlds are a part of the province from Kueroe subsector, ruled from the capital at Koutueghaegh.  The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Kueroe Subsector
----------------

The Kueroe subsector contains 32 worlds with a total population of 45.344 billion. The highest population is at Koutueghaegh, with 10.475 billion. The highest tech level is D at Ghikkor and Seud, while the 
lowest is 4 at Bhubhaek and Oshkughoubhr. The population comprises about 95% Vargr, 1% Chirper, and 4% other races.
The world of Ohueghfag is a Chirper world. They make up 60% of its population. Most Vargr on world pay them little attention. These are all Empire of Varroerth worlds, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. These worlds are a part of the province ruled from the capital at Koutueghaegh.  The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Aengangvuer Subsector
---------------------
The Aengangvuer subsector contains 21 worlds with a total population of 27.938 billion. The highest population is at Kherauzhdror, with 13.426 billion. The highest tech level is C at Akoun and Ghogrraehrir, while  the lowest is 4 at Aenglloeze. The population comprises about 96% Vargr, and 4% other races.
These are all Empire of Varroerth worlds, a large, multi-sector  empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. These worlds are a part of the province  ruled from Roenvoegazdu subsector, at the capital, Vakar.  The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Dhaendzouts Subsector
---------------------

The Dhaendzouts subsector contains 17 worlds with a total population of  11.285 billion. The highest population is at Oesoufuk, with 5.3565 billion. The highest tech level is C at Oesoufuk, Uybharrgig, and  Rroufaerghir, while the lowest is 5 at Yetdzor. The population comprises about 93% Vargr, 6% other races, and 1% Ref'iib.
The planet, Ruies (0420), is the homeworld of a minor alien species. The Ref'iib are just beginning their reach into space, and have found themselves landlocked by the Vargr worlds around them.
Most of these are Empire of Varroerth worlds, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. Empire of Varroerth worlds are a part of the province from Ruevoga subsector, ruled from the capital at Bhabraehzakh. It also rules worlds in the Odzgoegh subsector. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Ruevoga Subsector
-----------------
The Ruevoga subsector contains 14 worlds with a total population of 66.014 billion. The highest population is at Bhabraehzakh, with 52.276 billion. The highest tech level is D at Aebhrdzamgan, while the lowest is 4 at Guerrknue. The population comprises about 94% Vargr, and 6% other races. 
These worlds all belong to the Empire of Varroerth , a large multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. The capital at Bhabraehzakh rules all the worlds in this, Odzgoegh, and Dhaendzouts subsectors. It also serves as the regional governor's capital for this quadrant of the sector. The Empire of Varroerth is ruled from 20 regional governors throughout its
expanses. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Aenael Subsector
----------------
The Aenael subsector contains 26 worlds with a total population of 106.685 billion. The highest population is at Varroerth, with 45.097 billion. The highest tech level is G at Varroerth, while the lowest is 2 at Faeroghzubhr. The population comprises about 99% Vargr, 1% other races. These are all Empire of Varroerth worlds, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. This is the heart of the Empire. The capital at Varroerth also serves as subsector capital. 
The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth.

Roenvoegazdu Subsector
---------------------
The Roenvoegazdu subsector contains 31 worlds with a total population of 24.349 billion. The highest population is at Kouroudhgho, with 10.0695 billion. The highest tech level is B at Oghfakh, Kheur, and Vokourigh, while the lowest is 6 at Knaf and Ofkag. The population comprises about 95% Vargr, 4% other races, and 1% Droyne.
Te (2813) is a Droyne world. They maintain a lower level of tech than other Droyne worlds in the Extents. 
These are all Empire of Varroerth worlds, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. These worlds are a part of the province ruled from the capital, Vakar. The province also includes the worlds in Aengangvuer subsector. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Zarrkoe Subsector
-----------------
The Zarrkoe subsector contains 28 worlds with a total population of 51.632 billion. The highest population is at Raiyazae, with 21.086 billion. The highest tech level is E at Agiksa, while the lowest is 4 at Ukhvour and Fam. The population comprises about 69% Vargr, 27% Blopud, and 4% other races.
The planet, Datu (0223), is the homeworld of a minor alien species. They dominate this subsector, yet are surrounded by the Vargr, with whom they have good relations.
Most of these are Empire of Varroerth worlds, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. Empire of Varroerth worlds are a part of the province from Thafo subsector, ruled from the capital at Epar. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Thafo Subsector
---------------
The Thafo subsector contains 20 worlds with a total population of 5.190 billion. The highest population is at Epar, with 4.0786 billion. The highest tech level is F at Epar, while the lowest is 3 at Oudith. The population comprises about 95% Vargr, and 5% other races. 
These worlds all belong to the Empire of Varroerth , a large multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. The capital at Epar rules all the worlds in this and Zarrkoe subsectors. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Uengou Subsector
----------------
The Uengou subsector contains 13 worlds with a total population of 21.424 billion. The highest population is at Kuk, with 10.0866 billion. The highest tech level is D at Thibh, while the lowest is 5 at Karkougoubh. The population comprises about 94% Vargr, and 6% other races. 
These worlds all belong to the Empire of Varroerth , a large multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. The worlds in this subsector are ruled from the province capital at Egaghe in the Raez subsector. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Raez Subsector
--------------
The Raez subsector contains 28 worlds with a total population of 54.809 billion. The highest population is at Egaghe, with 20.45290 billion. The highest tech level is C at Khikheih, while the lowest is 4 at Sesakham. The population comprises about 93% Vargr, and 7% other races. 
These worlds all belong to the Empire of Varroerth , a large multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. The worlds in this subsector are ruled from the province capital at Egaghe, which also rules the Uengou subsector. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Vaerr Subsector
---------------
The Vaerr subsector contains 24 worlds with a total population of 4.8635 billion. The highest population is at Vibh, with 4.1962 billion. The highest tech level is B at Uarghagh, Oungbhyebh, and Oughvough, while the lowest is 5 at Ghothvae. The population comprises about 96% Vargr and 4% other races.
Most of these are Empire of Varroerth worlds, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. Empire of Varroerth worlds are a part of the province from Nouksaezor subsector, ruled from the capital at Ingak. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Nouksaezor Subsector
--------------------
The Nouksaezor subsector contains 25 worlds with a total population of 79.106 billion. The highest population is at Ingak, with 30.208698 billion. The highest tech level is F at Ingak, while the lowest is 2 at Ourat. The population comprises about 95% Vargr and 5% other races.
These worlds all belong to the Empire of Varroerth, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. Empire of Varroerth worlds are ruled from the capital at Ingak. It also rules the worlds in Vaerr subsector.The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Oegerag Subsector
-----------------
The Oegerag subsector contains 45 worlds with a total population of 68.092 billion. The highest population is at Zi, with 20.261 billion. The highest tech level is D at Khaevu and Kaarlag, while the lowest is 3 at Rorghfuuguur. The population comprises about 94% Vargr and 6% other races.
Most of these worlds belong to the Empire of Varroerth, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. Empire of Varroerth worlds are ruled from the province capital at Omakgheg in the Serrken subsector. There are two worlds belonging to the Lair Protectorate, Khaevu and Kaarlag. The Protectorate spans ten of the oldest Vargr worlds ruled from the Vargr homeworld of Lair (Provence 2402). The Protectorate declaired their independance from the Empire of Varroerth in 777. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).

Serrken Subsector
-----------------
The Serrken subsector contains 42 worlds with a total population of 223.696 billion. The highest population is at Iniyourr, with 50.608 billion. The highest tech level is G at Fothetigh, while the lowest is 2 at Aruuy. The population comprises about 98% Vargr and 2% other races.
All of these worlds belong to the Empire of Varroerth, a large, multi-sector empire spanning into 11 sectors. The Empire of Varroerth is the largest Vargr state in the Extents. Empire of Varroerth worlds are ruled from the province capital at Omakgheg, which also rules the worlds in the Oegerag subsector. It also serves as the regional governor's capital for this quadrant of the sector. The Governor, Ghaarkts Faegzag, has had some trouble with maintaining the Empire in his region. The Empire of Varroerth is ruled from 20 regional governors throughout its expanses. The sector capital for Ngathksirz is at Varroerth (2017).
