World: Datu

Blopud Homeworld
Population: 12,904,393,838

This is the homeworld of the Blopud, a minor alien race. They dominate this subsector, yet are surrounded by the Vargr, with whom they have good relations.

The Blopud

Minor alien species native to the planet Datu (Ngathksirz 0223). They are a populous, spacefaring race. One of the more unusual lifeforms, the Blopud are most known for their unique mating practices. A friendly and harmonious group, they exist in an independant sphere within the Vargr Extents. 

The Blopud are a cold-blooded, carbon based lifeform. In the dim past, they were an aquatic race resembling crustaceans. They have long since evolved into a land based race, native to the jungles of their homeworld. A diurnal omnivore, they exist at the top of the food chain. The racial averages are 5'9" in height, and 120 pounds in weight. They have 4 limbs in bilateral symmetry, and walk semi-upright. Covered by a soft carapace, the walking legs end in a running hoof, while the arms end in hands with 4 digits. A large, paddle tail on one end of the body is countered by a 'humanoid' head. The head has a large brow line over three eyes, and a  single mouth filled with numerous sharp teeth and a set of poisonous  fangs. There is no nose, visible ears, or hair.  Due to the lack of a nose, the Blopud have a combined sense of taste and smell, that is average in strength. They have a poor voice, suffering  penalties on learning languages in addition to their native tounge. Their sense of hearing is average. The three eyes give them excellent vision. The carapace gives them a crude tactile sense, and a low pain threshold. They do have an excelllent sense of kinesthetics, and posess an ability to  determine surroundings based on the movements and displacements of the atmosphere around them. Having perfect balance, they can land always right side up, like a Terran cat. The Blopud are known to be psionically active,  but they have no formal training on their homeworld.

The race is most known for their unusual mating habits. There are two  sexes, that marry for life. Individual Blopud are extremely shy, and some marriages have to be arranged. After a female reaches puberty, they are  fertile only once every two years. During that time, the female molts her carapace, and is extremely vulnerable. Whether or not a successful mating occurs, the female needs to be guarded either by her mate, or a societal institution for the nonmated. If the female is impregnated, she will then hibernate for the four month gestation period. The female then lays several eggs, and recovers from her hibernation. The young hatch after a further  three months, and require only moderate attention. The carapace regrows  in about a dozen days. Custom requires that widows marry to the family of their husband. Females have equal rights in society, but they are still considered vulnerable, and are looked after for their entire lives. 

Blopud society is progressive and constantly advancing. They are a  curious group, being broad minded in encountering new ideas. Although they are sensitive and congenial to aliens, they are slightly self-centered. One oddity to them is their lack of any performing arts. Traders are advised to avoid the trading of many forms of fiction, especially holovid and tri-d movie recordings. An early encounter with the Blopud reveals their inability to deal with fictional character representation. During this  encounter, a large group of natives rioted and burned down a tri-d movie house after a popular actor from the extents who had been killed in a  previous movie had reappeared in a new flick. The racial inability of the Blopud to comprehend the concepts of fiction and acting were blamed. Note that it doesn't decrease their fascination over such things, only a  potential problem to be avoided.

The Blopud are ruled by what is characterized as a religious autocracy. In the far past, religion was a major part of society. As they have advanced, however, the philosophy behind their religion has undergone a major change. Now the religion that dominates the society has replaced an adherence to a god with the realization that the universe is a vast and complex thing. The current view is one of philisophical athiesm, yet the church still retains control over the ruling of the planet. It could be argued that the planet is dominated by an oligarchy, or non-religious autocracy, but the current classification best describes the situation.
