Water World, thin atmosphere, population 7 billion (3.25 billion human & 3.75 billion Phin), TL 8, Civil service beauracy gov. Law level permits long arms.

The seven largest landmasses are no larger than the island of Hawaii on Terra.

The Class D starport is on the island of Rome. The islands of Urbino and Naples are government-run resorts, where vacations are expensive or available as top prizes in the government run raffles.

The other large islands, Bern, Bonn, Liverpool and Dresden, are heavy industrial sites. Workers are housed offshore in floating buildings or buildings anchored on the shallow sea bottom surrounding the islands.

Most of the planet's population lives in floating cities, built out of locally manufactured light plastics (a kelp derivative). Solar and wind power is used to crack water into hydrogen, which fuels MHD turbines for steady power. The cities serve as bases for various sea-product industries, including fish and kelp farms, fishing fleets, sea-based dredge mining, and light manufacturing industries. These cities are built of linked buildings designed wide and deep for stablity. The cities float free with stablizing engines built in buildings to keep a city from drifting too far from their area of ocean - though buildings, neighborhoods, and whole cities occaisionally move. The cities also provide 'shore leave' and other support to smaller vessels.

There are also cities built on the summit of submerged mountain or plateau tops. The `ground floors' of these cities are from 50 to 150 meters below the surface. Most buildings rise above the water level. Power comes from a combination of solar, wind, petrochem, MHD turbines and nuclear fission.

Neo-Amsterdam, the largest of these cities, is built on a string peaks along an undersea mountain chain, with `floating-city' structures providing connections. Neo-Amsterdam is one of the primary sources for TL 8 electronics on the planet. Neo-Amsterdam has a population of 63 Million Solmani decended humans and Phins.

The mountain top hubs that make up the Neo-Amsterdam chain are called, Manhatten, Bronks, Brooklyne, Konigin, Staten, Scarsdale, Pokipsea, Neo Paltz, Bison and Albany.

Smaller than the floating cities are city-ships, large (50-100Kton) vessels carrying an industry and its thousands of workers. The industry moves to its resources. For instance, the Dutchess County filter-mines metals from the sea water (preferably near active under-sea volcanoes). It's crew filters several metals from the sea water, refines the metal, and rolls the ingots, selling several types of finished metal product - then delivers the metal as needed. Other industries include large scale fishing, seaweed farming, submerged mining operations, and petrochem extraction. City ships are powered by imported fusion or locally built fission reactors, petrochem-powered (if the city-ship has access to a pumping station), or by IC engines fueled by a high-energy alcohol analog brewed from kelp. This fuel, Kelphol, is also a popular export item. A cut down version is flavored with local additives and sold under the brand name `Venician Flame Water'. VFW is a popular drink in parts of Reavers Deep.

Notice that more than half of the population is (dol)Phins. Some of these work in close cooperation with the humans - some as `fishboys' at the fish farms, spotting and repairing holes in the nets, driving schools of fish toward collection pens. Others scout for fishing ships, safety swim buddies for human divers, and undersea construction workers. Many also live 'free' in mid-ocean.

Venice does a lot of trade with the Ekaftouth system. Ekaftouth is an asteroid belt system with no human/aslan friendly planets. High tech items and rare metals flows from Ekaftouth. Venice exports fresh foodstuffs and provides a vacation spot with gravity, sky and beaches.
