Coventry is an exile world established by the Confederacy of Duncinae in the neighbouring Ea subsector.  Political dissidents and other criminals are frequently offered the choice between trial and punishment or voluntary exile to Coventry.  This has proven a useful method of humanely dealing with undesirables and has worked quite well since the system began some 350 years ago. 
  Coventry is a fairly hospitable world. Though the star is somewhat more energetic than a yellow G2 like Sol, the world's atmosphere screens out most of the excess UV and other potentially harmful radiation.  The world's climate is fairly good, though seasonal variations are extreme because of the significant degree of axial tilt.  All in all, though, the world is not harsh and exile is not a particularly serious punishment. 
  Coventry is rather strictly interdicted with the Confederacy maintains a listening post and two small warships (10,000-ton destroyers) in the system at all times.  These assets are based on one of the moons of the innermost gas giant. Traffic can refuel in the system by skimming one of the gas giants, but visits to Coventry itself are forbidden. 
  Security has been tightened considerably with an increased outpost staff and a building program to add a small fighter and small craft launch facility at the moon since the exile of Admiral Thomas Birnham to Coventry in 1110. 
  Rumour has it that the popular rebel leader is the focus of several different rescue plots.  The increased security is an attempt to keep any of these from bearing fruit.  Naval assignments to the Coventry station are carefully screened for political reliability and thus far there has been no trouble. 
  Little is known of conditions on Coventry, but it is believed that the world is ruled by a fairly tightly controlled oligarchy.  Lacking industry, the exiles have little in the way of technology, save for periodic luxuries delivered by the Confederacy government to ease the exiles' burdens. 
