Although Askoapoy has native life, it is believed that the Droyne presence on this world is the result of Ancients activity. Archaeologists working with the Droyne on Askoapoy have dated the first colonisation of the Gralyn system to some 300,000 years ago, when a colony of Droyne was established there by the Ancients. This colony survived the Final War that ended the Ancients' domination of known space and slowly recovered until its technological society had been re-established. 

Explorers from the Rule of Man first entered the system circa -2000. The discovery of the Droyne on Askoapoy sparked some excitement and a contact mission was sent by the Governor of Daibei. Friendly relations were established, and plans made to create a combined embassy, research base and trading enclave. The enclave, initially a couple of hundred people, was established in -1893, but by -1780 the population was well over 1000. The Collapse of the Rule of Man stranded the humans in the Gralyn system. The last starship to leave Askoapoy was a scout ship, sent to petition for an evacuation mission, but it was never heard from again. 

Askoapoy, never a part of the Vilani Empire or the Rule of Man, felt the Long Night less than many worlds. The only real effect was simple isolation. With the loss of support from back home the human enclave changed from a source of revenue for their Droyne hosts to a drain on community resources. The Droyne leaders wanted to rid themselves of this liability, but were reluctant to let the humans establish themselves permanently on Askoapoy, mostly because they believed the humans would begin to expand uncontrollably once released from the restraints of the enclave. 

The solution which was found was the primary planet of Askoapoy. Kraln was too cool for the comfort of Droyne, but was within acceptable human tolerances. The Droyne had had sublight space transport for a long time although it was considered wasteful and seldom used. An old freighter was put into commission and the humans transferred to Kraln (which human tongues eventually corrupted to "Gralyn"). Throughout the Long Night regular flights connected the two worlds, and with the help of the Droyne, Gralyn quickly expanded beyond the initial colony, and prospered. 

Towards the end of the Long Night raids by Reavers became increasingly common and Gralyn and Askoapoy developed a joint system defence boat network to defend themselves. This system was very effective, and soon the Reavers learned to avoid the system. Having this space navy in place and toughened by the Reavers, Gralyn was able to defend itself against Aslan colonists and weathered the Long Night well. 
