Concorde is chiefly important as the major link between the Imperium and the Principality of Caledon, and has a long history as an advanced outpost of the Imperial presence in Reavers' Deep. 
  The world was originally settled around -200 by a small band of Aslan clansmen, Ihatei searching for a landhold of their own.  It was not exactly choice real estate, but the Aslan were not strong enough to take better property away from the various Reaver warlords who dominated the better worlds.  The Aslan colony prospered, and established good relations with the emergent Principality of Caledon as the latter began to expand into space. 
  The Third Imperium arrived in the region just over 400 years after the Aslan settlement was established, and Concorde was the scene of one of the many conflicts which made up the Imperial phase of the Aslan Border Wars.  Strangely, in those conflicts the humans of Caledon (Reavers' Deep 1815) sided with the alien Aslan, against the Imperium.  The Caledonians were unwilling to see themselves consumed by the expanding Imperial frontier as the Kolan Hegemony already had been. 
   Eventually, though, sufficient guarantees of independence and good faith were offered, and the Principality agreed to withdraw from the conflict.  The Aslan on Concorde ultimately chose to accept the Emperor as their new overlord, and Concorde joined the Imperium.  The world, given its name to celebrate the new spirit of fellowship that followed this agreement (its previous Aslan name was Wyaseakhtai), continues today to support a mixed population of humans and Aslan. 
  It is a major port for trade with Caledon and far flung Caledonian mercantile interests in turn ensure that goods from as far away as the Hierate border worlds wind up passing through the trade docks of Concorde.  Lately competition between the Caledonian merchants and various Imperial firms (especially the megacorporation Delgado Trading, LIC) has led to slight downturn in trade through Concorde and consequent economic and political concerns. 
