Though not yet classifiable as an "Industrial" world according to the standards generally set down for such planets, Bryn is well on its way towards being a major industrial center of the Imperial frontier. Though small and unattractive physically, economic opportunities of this "boom system" have attracted a large number of new colonists over the course of the past century, and it is anticipated that the next Imperial Grand Census will show the population well over the 1 billion mark required for an "industrial" classification. Current population is estimated at close to 920,000,000 already. 

The government of Bryn is currently headed up by one Richard Kulagin, son of the popular Life-Tribune Eneri Kulagin, a reform politician who ended the excesses of the megacorporations, including Naasirka, GSbAG, and Instellarms, which for a time dominated planetary industry. The elder Kulagin's reforms won the support of the people, forced government by corporate syndicates to withdraw in favor of government by the will of the people, and put Eneri Kulagin in the newly created Tribuneship, at the head of the planetary government, for the rest of his life. 
  After the elder Kulagin’s death, his name still had magic on Bryn. His son Richard, a comparatively obscure politician, ran to succeed his father, and was elected overwhelmingly as the new Life-Tribune. Unfortunately Richard Kulagin is not the man his father was. He is commonly referred to as “Deadbrain Dick”, and has proven to be totally inadequate to hold office. However, the extraordinary powers granted with the title Life-Tribune make it unlikely that he will be replaced save by voluntary resignation or an untimely death. There are those on Bryn who are not above arranging for the latter. 

However, Richard Kulagin’s office is now receiving the full support of the megacorporations his father once ousted, who find him easily manipulated and highly useful. A consortium of megacorporations and other prominent businesses have been pulling the strings for Kulagin for some time, and would be very disturbed to see their puppet replaced by a less pliable character. 
