This sector is know as Iakr in the Zhodani Consulate.

Although settled for centuries, Foreven sector has had scant attention paid to it by the major states of the region— the Zhodani Consulate and the Third Imperium—except when their interests conflict. Its coreward subsectors are under the direct control of the Zhodani, while the remainder of the sector is settled by native sophonts and a variety of human settlers. The local cultures are unpredictable and poorly documented. Although many welcome Imperials, others resist their arrival as an unwelcome intrusion. The most disturbed is the Zhodani Consulate. Having fought for centuries to check Imperial expansionism, the Imperium now threatens to sweep across its rimward frontier. Unfortunately, the Consulate’s resources are needed elsewhere, so it must rely on its allies and its intelligence and frontier services, to deal with this crisis. Unlike the Spinward Marches, Foreven seems hostile to travelers—there are no convenient jump-1 mains to support free traders, and patrols by the Zhodani make Imperial-based merchant operations dangerous and often unprofitable (IM1 2).

The main Zhodani proxies in the area are the Avalar Consulate in Foreven/Beyond and the Steblenz Consulate (a full-fledged Zhodani colony) in Vanguard Reaches; the Imperium has three independent systems in Foreven that are client states, and on the Vanguard Reaches/Far Frontiers border, to spinward, the Duchy of Trelyn (renamed the Trelyn Domain, as part of a governmental reorganization paralleling the reorganization of the Domain of Deneb subsequent to the Rebellion) also takes an active role as an Imperial client state to promote Imperial interests in the region. 

The same major aliens that can be found in the Spinward Marches can also be found here; Aslan, Vargr, and Droyne and Chirpers may be encountered, although Vargr will probably be encountered less frequently, and Aslan (and Zhodani) more frequently, than in the Spinward Marches. 

HISTORY
The enigmatic and far ranging Ancients explored Foreven around -300,000. As elsewhere, they built many strange and wondrous artifacts, performed seemingly impossible feats and imported humans for purposes unknown. They then proceeded to destroy themselves in the Final War, leaving the remains of their bases and the primitive humans in isolation for millennia. 

The Zhodani were the first race to follow the Ancients into Foreven, with the earliest forays being made sometime around -4500. Initial Zhodani interest in Foreven was limited but grew as the years passed. Between -2000 and -1000, the Zhodani Consulate, in its usual way, slowly and carefully expanded into the sector and came to encompass a little over five subsectors along the coreward border. The Zhodani didn't stop there though. They continued to send trade and exploration missions into Foreven and beyond. The Zhodani weren't the only ones to travel Foreven during this 1000 year period. The Darrians and the Aslan explored as well, although neither race developed extensive colonies. 

In -798, the Zhodani established a permanent outpost on Avalar, then called Chodlot. This supported exploration leading into the Malikhar Crescent, also sometimes referred to as the Beyond. A community formed around the outpost and grew into a state, although without formal membership in the Consulate. Chodlot became an important jumping off point for the Zhodani's various pursuits. 

It was not until the 500s that Imperial colonists began to settle in Foreven. Early expeditions were often backed by Imperial megacorporations seeking to expand their resource and customer base. As they established themselves, they drew colonists from the Imperial interior, much as was the case in the Spinward Marches. With the consent of the government of Chodlot, Imperials established the Avalar Colony in the unoccupied regions of that world. The colony grew to dominate Chodlot in less than 100 years. 

Zhodani ships travelling to and from the Malikhar Crescent regularly traversed the chain of stars that included Avalar as a major stop. By the early 600s, the chain also supported a trade route between the Aslan Hierate and the Zhodani Consulate. The influence of Zhodani culture, despite the influx of Imperials to the sector, remained strong on worlds along this route and particularly on Avalar due to its early Zhodani origins. 

With the beginnings of the Frontier Wars (589), the Zhodani nurtured even closer relations with the systems along the Avalar Route. Toward the end of the 700s, the Consulate encouraged and assisted Avalar in uniting the worlds to form the Avalar Consulate. The intent was not only to protect the Avalar Route from commerce raiders but to also restrict Imperial access to the Far Frontiers sector. 

Likewise, the Imperium attempted to draw worlds to its side as a hedge against the Zhodani through a program of technical and economic aid. The effort resulted in a number of individual systems becoming Imperial client states although nothing on the scale, in terms of size, of the Avalar Consulate developed. Both the Zhodani and the Imperials tended to concentrate the majority of their efforts on the Marches during the Frontier Wars so they spared Foreven much of the attendant damage. Conflicts, when they occurred, often involved incidental naval encounters, tradewar and covert operations rather than full scale military campaigns. 

During the 700s, other interstellar states also formed in these frontier sectors. Among them were the worlds in Foreven and the Far Frontiers settled by the Hamadurs. These people were descended from a mixture of Solomani and Vilani, and came from Shiiki (Gushemege 1236). Their homeworld suffered much after the collapse of the Rule of Man. The coming of the Third Imperium brought prosperity for some, and an opportunity to escape for others. Sharing a common heritage, the Hamadur colonies formed the Mnemosyne Principality straddling the Foreven/Far Frontiers border. 
