111-1202

The following message was delivered to RCN forces operating in the Shenk subsector:

"In the name of The Empress Solee, the Christen Overtak, Her Brilliant Majesty Gabriella Ramstattan, I, Amaraan Abas, The Voice of Solee, declare to you Her most grave displeasure at your activities in the territory of the Soleean Empire.

"The surviving crew of your starcraft Marathon Victorious are being held for crimes against the person, lands, chattel and interests of The Empress Solee, for which the penalties are death. However, it is Her Brilliant Majesty's pleasure to commute these sentences to life imprisonment at hard labor, pending the payment of reparations by your Reformed Coalition.

"We expect the most rapid compliance with this generous offer." The message has been forwarded to the highest levels of the RC govemment. RCN throughout the Thoezennt, Shenk, Aubaine and Oriflamme subsectors are being placed on the highest level of alert.

111-1202

Cynta "Sinner" Lawter, the youngest line captain in the Reformation Coalition Navy, today resigned her commission amid growing controversy surrounding the Daaliisa raid, code named Cosmic Fire. Lawter has come under increasing criticism for her handling of recent operations by RCS Aube into the Promise subsector. Charges by centrist Assembly representatives that Lawter flagrantly disregarded the limits of the Primary Area of Operation and exceeded her authority in planning and executing raids had been dismissed by senior federalist members of the Assembly. The recent disclosure of the violent and covert nature of the raid on the Droyne of Daaliisa, however, has caused federalist support for Lawter to crumble amid concern that the raid will alienate the Droyne both on Daaliisa and elsewhere. Delicate diplomatic negotiations with Droyne enclaves are reportedly in progress on several worlds.

Lawter has refused to comment publicly on the controversial raid, except to say, "This is not about the Droyne; it is about Virus, and it's not going to just go away."
