112-1202

Bare-chested Secretary General Lon Maggart has completed his second day of goodwill tours on Oriflamme, following two full days of closed-door meetings with senior Oriflammen technarchs in Dobroye.Although experiencing a chilly yesterday, these tours are fast becoming a public relations spectacular. Each stop on the tour appears to be more enthusiastic than the one before, thanks to the Coalition leader's disarmingly vulnerable demeanor.

The first of yesterday's appearances, in and around the capital of Dobroye, were subdued events. This was due in part to the pubic association of the Aubani Secretary General with its major Coalition rival, but was mostly the result of the heavy security evidence each of these events. Widesecurity zones and phalanxes of local police, soldiers or Marines served to distance the Secretary General from his audience. Clearly dissatisfied with these arrangements and the effects they werecausing, Maggart departed from his prepared remarks while attending a children's league sporting eventin a Dobroye suburb.

"You can't tell from looking around here that I am your leader, can you, or that you are the people I have promised to serve. It doesn't look like we belong togethor at all." With this the Coalition Assembly leader stepped from his podium and pushed his way through the security cordon into the crowd, shaking hands and speaking with adults and children. When he returned to the podium he began unbuttoning his ceremonial burgundy tunic, explaining, "A boy in the rwod just asked me why everyone here is supposed to be afraid of me, and that made me think. And I decided that maybe it's because so many people tell me that I'm supposed to be afraid of you." Removing his tunic, Maggart exposed a bullet-proof ballistic garment, which he then removed, leaving himself exposed from the waist up. "Well, I guess that's pretty stupid, because there is not point in my being here if that's the only thing we have in common." Then the remarkably trim and muscular 47 year old official threw the protective garment into the crowd to the sound of wild cheering and put his tunic back on.

In the remainder of his speeches yesterday, and all of his appearances today, Magart laced his calls for unity and Coaltion common cause with references to his actions of the previous day, often in response to calls from or signs in the crowds gathered to greet him. Following his arrival at one of the construction bays of the Bourgund Shipyards, struck by a terrorist bomb just weeks ago, the assembledworkers remained on their feet, cheering, drowning out the attempts to introduce the SG. Finally Maggart stepped to the podium and drawled, "Well I guess by now you'll be wondering what the old man looks like," then opened his tunic to show the crowd he wore no armor.

Maggart capped off this fourth day of his vist to Oriflamme by observing a live firepower demonstration by the Oriflamme Marine Corps and the "Spearhead" Brigade RCMC, at Devil's Throne Training Range. Maggart who is protected exclusively by Oriflammen Marines in the form of his Secretarial Guard, watched while the 4th "Dagger" Battalion, RCMC staged a meteoric assualt to seize a landing zone, defeated a simulated attack by grav tanks from the 1st Oriflamme Marine Division, and held the perimeter until reinforcing Intrepid grav tanks could be landed from orbit. Behind the cover of the fusion spitting tanks, the Marines then simulated a breakout from teh lodgment, to the approving applause of their Coalition commander-in-chief. While flames still lapped at the edges of fusion -blasted craters, Maggart and his party moved out onto the field to congratulate the young Marines and thank them for their performance. Members 

of the SG's official party refuse to comment officialy on his daring behavior of the past two days and all are visibly tense during his appearences. One remarked, "You could say he is crazy, or that he knows what he's doing, I guess we'll know for sure in a few more days."
