151-1202
The recently founded Baldur Colonial Office today announced the departure of its first colony mission to the uninhahited world of Poyzen (1736/50 Skire X-787000-0). The colony, co-sponsored by Orlflamme, is intended to provide an additional source of raw materials for Baldur, and to expand trade and development along the so-called "Back Face of the Coalition.

The colony is the first of what is expected to be a series of similar projects run directly by Baldur without Reformation Coalitiorn oversight. Dimitri Rostov, Senior Manager of the Colonial Office, takes great pains to explain that this is not a challenge to Coalition authority, but rather a recognition of the importance of such missions and the need for Baldur to establish itself as a strong partner within the RC,rather than a weak member, too dependent upon other worlds.

Said Rostov, "We can't wait for Assembly consensus. Our future is too important to wait for some argumentative body to pencil us onto a schedule. Also, we are tired of being the 'sick man' of the backside. Baldur is more dependent upon technology imports than any other world of the Coalition, and we are eager to pull our own weight and offer something back to the Coalition. And if that gives us a stronger voice in the Assembly, so be it."

The Baldur Colonial Office has an unusual feature: one of its senior managers is an Oriflammen, Stefan Burg, present to coordinate the Oriflammen contributions to the colonial projects. The Oriflammen cooperation with the venture stems from the fact that Baldur has no open-air agricultural population, and the farmers needed for any successful colonial venture must come from elsewhere. This contribution is being coordinated by the Oriflamme Bureau of Relocation. Burg appeared with Rostov in the joint announcement and proclaimed Oriflamme's support of the Balduri initiative.

"Because the Coalition is currently committed to the coreward strategy as seen in the Title II mandate of official areas of operation, attempts to consolidate areas outside the AO, particularly along the trailing frontier, must be taken on by individual worlds. As the largest human population in theCoalition, Oriflamme is more than capable of taking on these duties herself without cutting back on her commitments to joint RC operations. No other world is able to say this, and we are proud to step forward and take responsibility."

Poyzen, the colony site, is unusual in planetological terms, in that it originally had an atmosphere classified as tainted, due to volcanic pollutants in its atmosphere. However, the world's volcanism has passed into a dormant phase, and the planet's atmosphere has cleaned itself up to the point where it is no longer rated as tainted. The world is thought to be uninhabited, having only been the site of a LastImperium scout base destroyed in the Collapse.
