301-1202
The Reformation Coalition Services Administration today announced the establishment of a new bootstrap project in the So Skire subsector, on the trailing face of the Coalition. This bootstrap operation is unusual in that it is being backed by joint RC resources, but is outside of the Primary Area of Operations mandated for such joint operations.

The target world for the operation is So Skire (1732/So Skire X-667843-1), a cold world whose inhabitants live in several island chains along the world's equatorial belt. One of these island nations was determined by an earlier survey operation to be amenable to off-world contact, and will be the center of focus of the upcoming bootstrap operation.

Bootstrap operations, unlike the more colorful "smash and grab" operations conducted by the RCES, are long-term projects intended to incorporate low-tech worlds and nations into the Coalition by gradually winning their loyalty via technical, medical, military, and social assistance. Because these operations are essentially intensive confidence-building projects, they are often referred to as "hearts and minds" operations within the RC bureaucracy. Bootstrap operations come under the purview of the RC Services Agency, which serves as the supervising body for the assembly of personnel, equipment, and support, but the bootstrap teams are naturally staffed by representatives of many RC organizations, including the RCES and RC Marine Corps. The coordinating officer for the So Skire operation, for example, is ]erszy Kaminski, seconded from RCES for this mission.

Until this announcement, it had been understood that RC bootstrap policy was governed by Title II, the Assembly measure that codified the Primary Area of Operations in the wake of the coreward-consolidation debate. Title II mandates the confinement of joint RC-funded expansion operations to the AO, which does not extend to the trailing subsectors, in which So Skire is located. Inside sources report that this non-AO operation is a quid pro quo offered to the Orifiamme delegation to unblock the stalled Ship Bill legislation, which was finally passed last month. The Ship Bill provides funding to the RC to allow the purchase of new Aurora-class clippers under construction in the orbitaI yards of Aubaine. Had the RC been unable to come up with funds to purchase these vessels, it was understood that their options would be picked up by Orlflamme to equip its planetary navy. The RCN and RCES strongly opposed the diversion of these important vessels from RC service, and RCN and RCES positions are usually strongly supported by the Assembl)/s federalist voting block. However, on this issue, the federalist block was split because many federalist delegates fear that the measure will only further centralize power in RC hands, to which federalists are opposed.

As if to underscore the urgency of resolving the Ship Bill controversy, the bootstrap team will be transported by RCS Immanuel Kant, newest of the RCN clippers, whose recent completion vacated one of the building slips which was promptly used to begin construction of another clipper.

301-1202
A dozen years ego, Lon E. Moggart burst upon the scene of reconstruction government with his characteristic vigor; Leaving his mark upon Aubani planetory defense, power distribution, and human-Scholli relations, among other areas. As a member( the first Coalition Assembly, he was elected its Secretary Ceneral by a wide margin, and has spent the 15 months since the defining the office, often colliding with the intended formal definition of his duties.

Spending time with "the SG" as he is called by his staff is a vivid experience, and is more akin to spending time with a natural force than with an ordinary man. Maggart is almost constantly in motion, whether springing to a pile of reports to extract a significant document, hoisting his boots up onto the edge of a table to tip himself back in his chair, or grabbing on unusual large mug of coffee, slurping a mouthful of the scalding liquid, and then slamming the mug back down to slosh its contents onto the table. His informality is at once charming and disorienting, as one is not always sure how to behave around such a dynamic figure. At the some time, one is unaccustomed to finding that such an activefigure is also keenly intelligen thoughtful, and quite well-read. However, the SG is friendly and open, and one is rapidly drawn into the whirlwind arena of this active leader who does not have enough hours in a day.

CIN is proud to present excerpts from this exclusive series of interviews with the Secretary General.

IN: Your central message as Secretary General seems to be the importance of uncity. But your leading opponents in the Centrist movement condemn your policies and then themselves call for unity. What is going on here?

SG: What you have to understand is that a lot of people are fighting over this concept of unity. Federalist unity, coordinated centrist unity, racial unity, economic unity. I don't care about all of that stuff.

I'm trying to awaken people to a different kind of unity. We're already in this together, the whole Coalition, because we can still become like all those dead planets out there if we don't keep our noses clean. Unity is not a concept to argue over, it's a reality to accept, and then move on from there.

I'm continuously surprised at how quick people are to split themselves into little groups as soon as they get their backs about a centimeter away from the wall, and I'm trying to get people to come to grips with the fact that we have no Ieeway to act like that. I want people to recognize the importance of this situation, and start coming up with some answers about how we're going to keep this crap from happening again. I'm just looking for an intellectual response here. Any intellectual response.

CIN:And what kind of response have you been getting back?

SG: Spotty.

CIN: What of the reports that have been circulating that there will be attempts against your life on your upcoming Gemini tour of Oriflamme?

SG: I try hard not to worry about stuff that I can't control. When I visit Oriflamme I will be making a lot of public appearances, so there are a lot of places where I could be vulnerable. But my job is not to protect myself, my job is to lead this Coalition, and to communicate some important messages to our people. Oriflamme is one of the crucial members of this organization, and deserves my undivided attention. So I am working on what I can control: preparing to communicate and listen to the people of Oriflamme, and not on what I can't control: making sure I stay alive. Now the chief of my security staff should be losing a lot of sleep, because it is his job to make sure that I don't get shot.

CIN: These death threats could come from Oriflammen separatists, hard-core Centrists, feudalists, right-wing humanists, antisubinfeudationists, or even from the Oriflammen resistance in order to discredit their government. Who do you believe that it is behind these threats?

SG: I don't care.

CIN: But surely you--

SG: I said I don't care, and I mean I don't care. And I'II tell you why. I know that those threats don't come from the people of Oriflamme. If the threats are real, they come from fringe elements who do not represent the people of Oriflamme, and I want to make it clear to you in the media, and to every Coalition citizen that these threats do not reflect on the people of Oriflamme, and I will not stand for any implication that they do. Do I make myself clear!

CIN: Eminently, Mr. Secretary

