326-1202

A combined Reformation Coalition force under the command of Commodore Sean "Hammer'' Lathrop has chalked up another conspicuous success here on Marax, rescuing the 12 imprisoned crew of the Dawn League trader DLS Horus, held in captivity for more than a year by TED Ushugaam II. Horus was one of the original 12 ill-fated 'Trading scouts" dispatched in 1199 on exploration missions from which none of them would return. Horus was declared overdue on 3/XIV1199.

RC intelligence services received infonnation from unspecified sources that the Horus crew, under Captain Julianne Einhatta, were being held by Ushugaam's forces in an underground stronghold in the "Cleft Bagvoot," a system of rift valleys in the high desert of Marax. The stronghold is the preCollapse headquarters of the Marax planetary defense system, and was heavily defended by batteries of TL10 planetary defense missiles. Due to the deep subterranean location of the Cleft Bagvoot stronghold, it could not be attacked directly from orbit, but could only be assaulted by troops on the ground in the valley itself.

This required a daring assault spearheaded by drop troops who neutralized the missile batteries, paving the way for the landing of heavy reinforcements from orbit. The force included units from the Reformation Coalition Navy, Reformation Coalition Marine Corps, Oriflammen Marine Corps, Nimban Army, plus Freelancers and volunteers from Baldur, organized as Task Force Strike Marax.

The task force consisted of three companies of troops plus an engineer platoon and RCN orbital support commanded from task force flagship Thunderchild, Captain Pat Ritter commanding.

The RC forces were faced by elements of three battalions of Marax troops, equipped to tech level 9 or 10. The initial RC lodgement was seriously threatened by the arrival of relic heavy armored vehicles of the "Abomination" design. These fission powered behemoths were impervious to the drop troops' weaponry, and had eventually to be destroyed by orbital missile fire. The attack was ultimately successful, resulting in the clearing of the stronghold and the rescue of all 12 Horus crewmembers. The TED Ushugaam is also believed to have been killed in the action.

The commanding officer of the System Naval Forces (COSYSNAVFOR) Captain Pat "Who Me?" Ritter, described it as, "a textbook operation. It's right there in the first chapter, under 'Goat Rodeos: How to Organize Them for Fun and Profit.""

With the recovery of Horus' crew, nine of the 12 Dawn League traders are now thought to be accounted for. The fates of traders Damerlicht, Dawn and Reine Soleil are still unknown.
