
System Description
------------------

Inward Clearance

Tavonni considers itself to be on the frontier. Even the
forcible acquisition of the Sword Worlds has not wiped out the
memory of their attempted land-grab. This perception shapes
Tavonni's attitude towards defence and inward clearance. Most
outsiders often consider Tavonni's defence forces to be overly
large. However, this allows initial inward clearance to be
cursory and almost automatic; always remember; the Navy awaits
insystem. A patrolling naval vessel makes a cursory scan of
incoming traffic and normally clears it through to Tavonni High.
It may give special clearance if a vessel has another
destination (for example, another starport or base insystem).
Generally, this must be pre-arranged.

Tavonni System Control (TSC) is based at Tavonni High, and
monitors all in-system traffic. TSC controls the movement of
ships to and from Tavonni High to all downports, plus any ships
with special clearance that bypass the highport. It also has the
authority to declare a civil or military emergency. The
difference is that a civil emergency causes rescue ships to race
to the scene, while a military emergency causes warships to race
to intercept. Either way, TSC vectors civil and military traffic
throughout the system. All military traffic remains away from
the civil lanes, unless they enable their transponders.

All incoming ships, unless given special clearance, must dock at
the Tavonni High orbital port. Classed as "basic" in size, it
houses up to 500 passengers and 500 work crew. Refined fuel,
spare parts, armament stocks and annual maintenance are all
available, plus local foodstuffs and luxuries from across the
sector. Customs and immigration can clear planet-bound
passengers either in orbit or on the surface. In-bound cargo has
a basic inspection performed on it to ensure that its bill of
lading is accurate. Starport Authority (SPA) customs officers
sometimes inspect cargoes for contraband, but this occurs less
frequently for regular goods than for speculative cargo. SPA
personnel synchronise customs procedures with scheduled shuttle
flights, allowing passengers and cargo to proceed to the planet
with little or no waiting.

If a ship wants to land at Beowulf Down, customs officers must
first inspect it at Tavonni High. Final customs clearance may be
handled either at Tavonni High or at Beowulf Down.  TSC must
then give landing clearance before the ship commences re-entry.
Note that ships with special clearance may undergo inspection,
customs and immigration at their destination downport.

The Mainworld

Seen from orbit, Tavonni appears untouched by civilisation. A
deliberately low-key approach to development has left much of
the planet undeveloped, making it look like a green jewel, lush
with vegetation. While shuttling to the main starport on
Bj'rn'ya Island, it is difficult to imagine that advanced
sophonts live here at all. It is only when nearing The Plateau
that artificial features begin to emerge from the jungle.

Beowulf Down, the main starport, has excellent facilities for
both private and commercial travellers. Aircraft and small craft
are available for charter. Lone Scout Enterprises, an Imperial
company originally created by ex-Scout commander Mikheil B.
Powell, provides spaceship construction and starship repair. A
full Scout base is attached to Beowulf Down, and is open for
inspection once per month. trendi (Tavonni Research, Engineering
and Design Inc), a subsidiary of Menelvagor, markets new
vehicles and equipment.

The main tertiary industry is hosting conventions and meetings
for members of widespread Regency companies. The consequence of
catering for these well-to-do travellers means that Tavonni's
prices are not for the faint-hearted. Accomodation within the
starport perimeter, for example, is at the Starport Hotel
(4-star). The capital, Tamoachan City, is located moments away
from the starport via monorail. Accomodation here ranges from
the Hotel-at-the-Edge-of-the-World (5-star) through to the TAS
Hostel (4-diamond). The off-worlder notices immediately that,
having begun with only pre-fab buildings, Tavonni's population
now prefers luxurious dwellings. Due to the cultural diversity,
a number of restaurants provide off-world cuisine. In fact, most
of the cuisines of three sectors, five species and four major
races can be sampled in the capital alone.

Tavonni Safari Park (TASP), the next island west of Bj'rn'ya, is
for exclusive use by safaris. These include both camera shoots
and big-game hunting expeditions. Visitors can see much of the
more exotic of Tavonni's wildlife inhabiting the island. The
Tavonni Beach Resort is the only permanent construction on TASP.

The primary Aslan settlements are located on the eastern
continent, mainly for historical reasons. Caradoc's base is
located here, operating out of the original starport (now
C-class). It was on this continent that Count Leto first granted
land to members of the Ftai company. One other spaceport in
known to exist on the planet, but its location is classified -
as are the locations of Tavonni's deep-site meson guns. At least
four of these are believed to exist - possibly more.

Infrastructure

Civilisation on Tavonni is widespread, literally! Being a young
settlement, Tavonni's infrastructure is less than 70 years old,
and averages out at TL 13 (some at TL 15). This planetary
infrastructure contributes to the settlement pattern on Tavonni.

The only large population centre is Tamoachan City (located
close to Beowulf Down), with most of the population living in
medium sized communities, separated from their nearest
neighbours by up to 600 km or more. Most of these mid-sized
communities support smaller communities, based on primary
industry. This settlement pattern means that there are few
long-distance ground transport links. Most passenger
transportation is via grav vehicles, either air/raft taxi for
short distances, or GCoach for longer distances (for example,
via the Vargr-owned long-haul bus company, "G-Hound"). These
long-distance services stress high speed. Rental vehicles are
also available, ranging from 'Hatchback' style through to Grav
RV. Bulk cargo trade is via either a few ocean-going merchant
ships, or small craft/starships.

From early on, the government recognised the need for a good
communication net to limit the danger of dropping out of
contact. Without it, help was almost impossible to call for, and
rescuers would spend a considerable time deploying. Tavonni
established an excellent and affordable communications network.
All vehicles must be fitted with emergency beacons. Rental of a
communications service is available at short notice for Cr1 per
day plus Cr0.3 per 10 minutes on-line, with Hand Computer access
at Cr3 per day (long term rentals are lower than these prices).
The Government also created a rapid deployment emergency service
facility. In the early days, the easiest way to provide these
emergency services was to form them from the existing military
medical and police force. Today, they still retain a
paramilitary flavour, being staffed predominantly from
ex-military personnel. For this reason they find it very easy to
escalate problems to full military support in an emergency (the
military are obliged to lend a hand in civil emergencies). They
also have good access to funding, heavy equipment, and the
Count's ear on major issues.


Society
-------

First Impressions

The streets of Tavonni are very cosmopolitan. Droyne (a few) rub
shoulders (or shoulder to hip) with Aslan (a large portion of
the population). Many businesses have been started with
multi-racial, and multi-species partners. Most such businesses
find the diversity an encouragement for all their client races.
Travellers find the population open and friendly. Since most
people are only first- or second-generation settlers (sometimes
third), they welcome people from across the Regency.

The Military

Since the very start of development on Tavonni, there has always
had a strong military presence in the system. Starting by
settling the Ftai company, Tavonni has constantly reviewed and
upgraded its defences. The Sword World border was always on the
mind of Count Leto, and he was the first to recommend annexation
of the Sword Worlds when they began their land grab.

The need for the military has never been questioned - especially
in light of the fact that they are citizens with voting rights.
The Tavonni Planetary Navy and the Ashsiimkir-Ftai regiment
cemented this need in the hearts of the populace, with their
heroic defence of the system against the invading Sword World
fleets.


Government
----------

Democratic government has always been a key part of Tavonni's
development. Count Leto shrewdly decided that his planet needed
to be "democratic" in order to attain the "Rich" trade
classification. Accordingly, he formed a Constitutional
Committee to create the Tavonni Constitution and system of
government. The Committee decided that "the people of the planet
of Tavonni will be governed by a representative democracy,
elected from either an independent platform or a party system.
This elected legislative body will be known as the Government of
Tavonni (hereinafter referred to as the Government)" [excerpt
from the Tavonni Constitution].

The population of a locality elects 10 local councillors. In
turn, each local council elects one of its members to be their
representative on the regional council. Each regional council
elects two of its members for the planetary government: one for
the House of Legislation, and one for the House of Review (this
system was an attempt at preventing a two-party political system
from forming). Each level of government can pass legislation
that will take effect in its own area: local councils can pass
Local Regulations; regional councils can pass Regional
Ordinances; and the Planetary Government can pass Bills that
become Planetary Statutes, with the Count having the power of
veto. If lower laws conflict with higher laws, the lower laws
are deemed suspended. The Tavonni Police Force enforces all
three types of law.

Planetary Statutes can also be created by plebescite (a vote of
the entire population). All "matters of public importance" are
decided on by plebescite. In most matters of public importance,
the people tend to vote the same way. In 70 years, the closest
result of a plebescite has been 60:40 (the Zhodani settlement
vote). Every citizen of Tavonni over 18 years of age is be
eligible (but not required) to cast one vote in any election or
plebiscite that occurs in their locality, and is eligible to
submit a petition for a general plebiscite. The Count is NOT
allowed to cast a vote in a plebiscite, unless the matter
concerns the Count's Household, the County Estate, or the Planet
of Tavonni as a whole. The Count IS allowed to vote in elections
for his locality.

Note that non-compulsory voting often allows the Count to
influence the vote: he grants leave to any member of the
military who wants to vote. The military personnel, generally
favourable to the Count anyway, have a course of voting
suggested to them via a "How To Vote" card and an educational
campaign.


Landholdings
------------

Originally, the estate of the Count of Tavonni consisted of the
entire system of Tavonni. This expanse of territory has dwindled
somewhat, due to the constitutional laws agreed to by the Count.

Crown Land is land directly owned by the Count's Household. This
is also known collectively as the County Estate. Private
citizens or companies may purchase freehold real estate from the
County Estate. This is then considered to be "private land". The
Government of Tavonni is granted land for public use ("public
land") by the County Estate. Public land also includes other
areas of Crown Land specifically set aside by the Count. The
Government may resume private land, but only by Statute.

Resources beneath the land are NOT the possession of the owner;
these are possessed by the lessee of the mineral rights for the
area. If there is no stated lessee, then the implied ownership
rests with the Count of Tavonni.

 
Modern History
--------------

Modern Tavonni history covers a very short space of time,
encompassing 1111 to 1201. Caradoc LIC, a Ling Standard Products
company, purchased the system in 1117. Menelvagor Ltd,
originally a Sword World company, built the starport. The
background on both companies provided below explains how this
seemingly unlikely fusion came about.

Caradoc LIC

Caradoc began when a retired Fleet Admiral (Count Leto
Khaanraarshuinki) and a retired Army general (Gukushriiken)
created a trading company in the Outrim Void (Egryn subsector,
Trojan Reach). In 1099, the pair teamed up with two ex-scouts
and a merchant. By using their retirement benefits and Leto's
family fortune, they created a subsector-wide interface line by
1101. Trading, a lanthanum strike, and the salvage of missing
frontier cruiser Bright Light built Caradoc's capital to TCr 1
by 1117. When Leto learned of the Strephon's death, he foresaw
trouble in the Outrim Void. Guessing at the probable response of
the ihatei (with knowledge gained from trading), he decided to
abandon their trading bases and retreat to the Marches. While
scouring the sector for a new base, Leto cut a deal with LSP to
become a subsidiary company. This gave Caradoc access to
much-needed contacts within the Marches, and provided a large
capital base to draw upon. When his scouts returned, Leto
decided that Tavonni was the best choice for a base: it provided
land, it was in an under-developed subsector, and it was in a
central location in the Marches.

Menelvagor Ltd

Menelvagor Ltd traded throughout the Marches for nearly ten
years, after being incorporated on Beater/Sword Worlds in 1101.
Growing from a single free trader to a fledgling company, it
received a severe setback when pirates destroyed its flagship
Mithril Wanderer in 1110. The company lost its founder, Beowulf
Heyerdahl, at the same time. Baroness Heidi Maria Heyerdahl took
over the company and steered it through the remainder of the
Fifth Frontier War. Two years later, the shipyards at
Pixie/Regina completed the company's new flagship Bonaventure, a
12,810-ton armed merchant cruiser.

The Tavonni Purchase

Leto travelled to Regina personally to petition Archduke Norris
for the Tavonni system. While attending a function, he met
Heidi, and they discussed the purchase. Heidi realised the
potential of the concept and offered to build the starport.
Together, they approached Norris with a detailed proposal. It
included the establishment of a Scout base and xboat link
between Vilis and Lanth, the creation of a starport, and the
provision of a small planetary defence fleet (partly to be
comprised of surplus Imperial Navy craft). Norris approved the
Tavonni Purchase on 261-1117. An extensive system survey began
as Caradoc's Darrian Aslan company Ftai evacuated its holdings
in the Outrim Void.

Caradoc immediately constructed a basic D-class starport, while
Menelvagor raised a MCr 2,000 loan from Hortalez et Cie and
began building the "real" starport of Beowulf Down. Caradoc also
recruited refugees from the ihatei invasions as colonists. In a
joint refuel/repair deal with Al Morai, Caradoc ensured that the
refugees were transported to Tavonni at a discount rate. In
turn, Al Morai's dead-end route from Regina to Garda-Vilis
turned into a circular route to Lanth, connected via Tavonni.

By the completion of Beowulf Down on 100-1121, Tavonni's
population had reached 117,200. A population boost occurred
later that year, when a lanthanum strike in the Peanuts belt
brought miners flocking to the system. A further boost occurred
when the Domain learned of the AI Virus and forced Tavonni to
destroy all its robots. The government had to re-start colonist
recruiting to replace the lost workforce.

The Sword Worlds Land-Grab and the Abandonment

The Imperial Navy supplied a surplus Kokirrak-class dreadnought
to the Tavonni Planetary Navy (TPN) on extended loan. Together
with the Bright Light and Bonaventure, the Khtai provided the
core of the planetary fleet. The TPN increased in size by
loaning and purchasing numerous smaller ships. The ground forces
grew from Caradoc's original Aslan company through to regiment
size by 1130.

In 1130, the Navy reclaimed most of the ships loaned to the TPN
(including the Khtai). They also nationalised many of the
military ships owned by the TPN. The Navy re-directed all these
vessels to assist the Quarantine. This almost proved the undoing
of Tavonni when the Sword Worlds attempted their land-grab in
1132. The TPN desperately pressed into service every ship it
could find, even using private vessels as couriers where
necessary. The Tavonni forces fought a rear-guard and somewhat
guerilla-like campaign against the invaders. The Sword Worlders
managed to gain a foothold on the surface, but sustained heavy
casualties as the Ashsiimkir-Ftai, now an Imperial-Aslan
planetary regiment equipped to TL 15 standards, inflicted losses
far greater than their numbers would suggest. The Sword World
ground forces could not crack the four tank companies of the
regiment, having to rely on ortillery that was then vulnerable
both to the tanks and to some well-placed deep-site meson guns.
When elements of the 18th Fleet finally relieved Tavonni, they
drove the Sword Worlders out of the system.

After this, the RQS returned a number of ships to the TPN,
including the Khtai, Bright Light, and Bonaventure. The Tavonni
defence forces had their revenge, accompanying the regular
Regency forces when they annexed the Sword Worlds, supported by
the 151st Fleet from Sacnoth/Sword Worlds. Baroness Heidi
personally claimed her homeworld of Tizon in the name of the
Regency.

The Abandonment (1133) was something of a lifesaver for Tavonni.
Deprived of its robotic workforce three years earlier, and
having to rebuild infrastructure destroyed by the Sword World
invasion, the planet needed more people. With a history of
recruiting refugees for resettlement, the Tavonni government had
an edge over other Regency worlds that opened for colonists.
Tavonni was almost able to pick and choose whomever it wanted to
bring, welcoming them into its society while cleverly avoiding
the "Refugee World" tag (some Regency citizens view this label
with distaste). The young Tavonni society thus succeeded in
incorporating the refugees, much as it had the original (and
on-going) colonists for 15 years. However, the citizens of
Tavonni - normally friendly and accepting - voted recently
against allowing Zhodani refugees to settle in the system.
Observers believe that this result derives from the antipathy
shown to all members of the former Outworld Coalition by the
families of Count Leto and Baroness Heidi.


