Efate 

	IISS operates an Ancient site, stripped of any useful items, as a historic site.  Restorations of the site show a gridwork of thousands of walls spaced about two meters apart, and punctuated by extremely massive bulwarks at random intervals.
	Down Franklin Starport. The northern continent is named Kormoron. 


The 5th Frontier War
--------------------

   The honour code - despite its valued place within Efate culture - has
   often been the source of some of the most intratacable conflicts on
   Efate. One well-known conflict - between the Keeslia'k and the Keia'ss
   noble houses - has often led to continuous bushfire wars in the bitter
   polar wastes of Efate. This conflict eventually grew like topsy: by
   1107, it pitted most of the lesser noble houses against the five High
   Houses. Covert Zho support of the smaller houses was quite well-known:
   the Efate never were as phobic towards psionics as Imperials were, and
   often consider the 'truthful' Zhodani as basically more honourable
   than Imperials.
   
   Between 1000 and 1107, the Imperium/Domain/Regency had to send Marine
   units no less than *fifteen* times to restore the peace, with each
   incident worse than the last. During one of these incidents - the
   famous Razor Wars of 1107 - most of Makitii District was thrown in a
   state of chaos, requiring Imperial Marines to put down the rebellion
   (078-1107). The Imperials expected a walkover, considering the rather
   poor equipment the lesser noble armies had.
   
   Boy, were they surprised. The rebellious nobles didn't have much in
   the way of fancy equipment, but they were well prepared, and - with
   plenty of Zho advice and psionic aid - were able to hit the Marines
   unexpectedly hard throughout the Cackiit Highlands. While their tactic
   of using a Merc cruiser to deliver a 5MT nuclear warhead to the main
   body of Imperial troops failed (see "A Dagger at Efate", JTAS #?"),
   several other subterfuges - including sneaking a large supply of heavy
   fusion rifles - were successful.
   
   The marines were just getting a bead on the rebellion put down when
   the Fifth Frontier War swept thru Regina subsector, placing Efate
   under siege from 214-1107 to the armistice, declared at 099-1110 (The
   war was officaly declared over at 001-1111).
   
   Ferocious naval clashes ensued between the Zho. 1st Assault Fleet -
   tasked to take Efate - and the defending Imperial 193rd Fleet.
   However, because the Zho's could not secure their supply line through
   Louzy, the 1st Assault Fleet couldn't bring their full potential force
   to bear against the 193rd. The unconqured Imperial outposts at Louzy
   could also supply information to Imperial forces regarding incoming
   reinforcements, permitting the 193rd to successfully defend against
   several offensives. From mid-1109, the Zho's were releasing ships to
   fight at other fronts, but were still strong enough to resist the
   Imperial attempt to relieve Efate during Operation Iedshrpr (launched
   029-1109), spearheaded by elements of the Corridor Fleet.
   
   The intense fighting was used by the High Houses as the justification
   to purge the lesser houses from all government positions. This led to
   even more embittered fighting, and eventually to several ugly
   atrocities. In the aftermath of the Fifth Frontier War, most of the
   lesser houses was stripped of their titles and exiled to Ley Sector by
   order of the Emperor: most of the major leadership was shot for High
   Treason. With the leadership of the Lesser Houses not only destroyed,
   but considered dishonourable - this in a culture that values honour
   above all else - the continual bushfire wars of Efate came to an
   permanent end.



Religion
--------

   While the Servani Cults are the most flamboyant religion on Efate, the
   dominant religion remains Imperial Catholicism. The Deneb Rite remains
   the most influential with over half the population's alligence, but
   Sylean, American, and Vilani Rites are also common.
   
   The population is quite pious, and place strong emphasis on the
   graciousness of the Lord. Assorted religious meetings - from major
   religious festivals to spontaneous 'street dancing' - are quite
   common. While Efate does not have the most awe-inspiring cathedrals or
   the most learned and wise of churchmen, they do embrace their faith
   with vigour and joy. Which is somewhat ironic: about 2/3rds of Regency
   Christians believe that nonhumans shouldn't be allowed to join the
   church, either because they lack the "imageo dei" (the Image of God),
   or because they feel that Christianity is about God speaking to men,
   and that God would use other native religions to speak to nonhumans,
   not Christianity.
   
   The tendency of Efate Catholics to stress the power of the Holy Spirit
   - and to utterly ignore the commandments and laws of God - tends to
   aggravate most Catholic churchmen. Never mind the problem of whether
   Jesus died for nonhuman sinners or not, or if this theology even makes
   sense when applied to aliens. Or even if Efate are 'sinners' in any
   meaningful sense: how can they transgress a law that they never
   received?
   
   Note: Efate was a major beneficiary of the Regency Industrial
   Development Program.

