
Introduction to Tirem
---------------------

Tirem is just one of the larger asteroids in the Incalescens Belt: there
are another 247 "asteroids" with a size between 1 and 8, orbiting as a
belt around the primary, Kinkos.  According to the most common theory,
the Belt is the result of the destruction of a small planet - perhaps
during the Final War - with the resulting fragments forming a mass of
small planets in orbit around Kinkos. Navigation within the boundaries
of the Belt is satisfactory throughout the Belt: however, gas traces of
nitrogen and methane is thinly spread throughout the Belt, and may
cause limited communication problems.

Tirem is an elongated, misshapen brick of a world, with it's diameter
varying from 3000 km to 22,000 km.  Long riddled with tunnels, it remains
one of the greatest sources of nickel in the Regency: a few other items
are here also, largely copper and iron.  The convoluted shape of the
world - along with relentless "hollowing" by kilometer-wide mobile
excavation complexes - contribute to the variable gravity on Tirem.

The 21.48 billion people who reside here include a large number of
ex-Trini and "assimilated", dispossessed Aslans who couldn't afford to
leave the Regency.  These immigrants, fleeing their homes with only the
clothes on their back, have begun to reverse the grim atmosphere that
pervades throughout the system, but even today face entrenched
discrimination and suspicion by Natives.


History
-------

Centuries of hard living has shaped both the culture and the lifestyles
of Tirem.  Always overshadowed by Glisten, Tirem is where the hard-luck
miners who can't afford Glisten anymore eventually migrate to.  Despite
Tirem's evident natural wealth, the good times never seemed to stick
around, and the only thing that was built for future generations was bad
debts and old hatreds.

The Tirema have an extremely strong family system, which long made the real
dicisions on what happened here.  The Families divided up Tirem - and the
rest of the system - to over 32,200 tiny, seperate, fiercely independent
nations.  During good times - say, between 350 and 475, or from 1000 to
1116 - this system provided a support system for all Tirema, providing an
outlet for pride and mutual help.  When times were bad, the situation
deteriorated to a war of All againast All, with truly ugly consequences
(between 580 and 610, about 1/4 of the entire population died via warfare
and its consequences).

Unfortunately, these cycles tended to coincide with the wealth of Tirem.
When desperately poor, violence was pratically nonexistant, with
everyone desperately engaged in simply keeping the heaters operating and
the air purifiers working for one more day.  As wealth grew, so did envy,
eventually resulting in a cataclysmic civil war between every Family and
every other Family - and impoverishing all in a very short period of time.

Tirem was still recovering from it's last nadir (at 1085) when the
Rebellion swept over it in the late 1110's.  After the fall of Glisten,
the Domain began to mass it's forces at Crout, just a parsec away.  The
Aslan ihatel warships desired Tirem as a staging area to further press
back the Regency, and fought a host of shirmishing actions and sharp,
short battles here.  Crout faced a full scale assault three times - in
1119, 1123 and 1125 - and each time the fighting spilled over to Tirem,
ruining much of it's industrial base.  Ownership of Tirem itself changed
hands 11 times (three times in 1120 alone) with the usual exorborant level
of damage and tragedy as the price for being a battlefield.

When the Domain returned to stay in 1130, Tirem was in ruins, without a
government and it's peoples largely in despair, helpless to prevent the
destruction.  The Domain's arrival initally just worsened things, as
billions of poor Aslan immigrants, fleeing Glisten and other occupied
worlds, but unable to afford the pumped-up fares needed to return home,
were just dumped on Tirem by the Domain.  Eventually, aid and repair
funds arrived, and a government was installed by the newborn Regency,
but not before several riots and urban battles were fought.  By the
time another massive wave of immigrants arrived - over 4 billion from Trin, at
1139 - the Regency was able to quickly provide housing and food, while
stifling the local hotheads easily (via both political and militarily means).

By 1200, Tirem has rebuilt itself well, becoming definitely more richer and
more stable than before the Rebellion.  The provisional All-Tiren
government has become pernament, and, wonders of wonders, is even
respected by the citizens.  Several new ports have been built, with the
main port at CorkRock upgraded to "B" level.  Traditional freedoms are
maintained, but the Tirema are no longer willing to permit the Families to
destroy their hard-won semiprosperity for the sake of pretty promises.


Mining
------

The major mining concerns of Tirem revolve around bulk nickel mining and
refining.  Massive 300,000 to 1,000,000 ton motherships slowly devour the
smaller asteroids, with the miners looking like so many hyperactive ants
as they devour the asteroid.  When that asteroid is finally emptied of
valuable metals, the ship slowly coasts off to new pastures.

The motherships slowly tow their cargo to the starport on CorkRock, and
as they do so, the interior of the ship is consummed with the task of
refining the nickel ore into useful bulk blocks.  After a journey that can
take several months, the mothership arrives at CorkRock, where enormous
Regency bulk carriers load on the blocks, to be taken to industrial and
high-pop systems throughout the rimward Marches.

Almost all of these motherships are themselves hollowed-out asteroids,
which rely on dangerous fusion rockets for transportation for themselves
and their cargo (which can outmass the ship 20:1!) The folk on there are
among the poorest folk of the Regency above TL 10, living short, dangerous
lives: very few has ever known of any place other than their ship's,
CorkRock (which is viewed as a temporary haven), and the Outer Rocks.
The wealth of Glisten is only a week away via jumpspace, but as distant
as Capital in it's effect on the lives of the people here.


Culture
-------

Celtic influences are easily found in Native Tirema culture, but are most
obvious in the language, songs and storytelling.  Most folk speak a form
of Anglic and Aslan-influenced T'nair, which has endured from the
original settlements of Tirem. Names like Rosann (Rose), Siun Ni Dhuibhir
(Susan O'Dwyer), and others are especially popular for girls, even among
the Aslan (how many Aslan femals named Susan can be found outside of Tirem?)

The Aslan's have also influenced the locals - although the locals will
vigourously deny this.  Aslan concepts of honour and tradition have begun
to seep into local thought, and is rapidly intergrating itself into the
fabric of society.  This has led to a lessening (!) of violence, and a
greater rigidity in gender roles.

Dress for men tend's to be simple, sensible and close to the skin.  A
skin-tight suit with 'pockets' that run down the legs is common apparel
among the Tirema.  Women's fashion largely follows standard Regency
mores, but with rather more modesty and with certain, aslan-influences
touches (say, T'nair runes along their hems and edging their blouses).

Religions tend to be widely varied, and personal, with a general
preference to the more "philosophical" faiths rather than the "supernatural"
ones.  Every ship and even the most pitiful "tunnel rat" shacktowns has
at least one Shrine or Temple, which are lavishly decorated and perfumed.

Several local priesthoods are famed for having having their "bone" skull
replaced by a "glass" skull.  It's rather... disturbing... to see those
veins just pounding away, but the locals don't seem to mind at all: if
anything, the average local finds it "cute"!

Robots are among the few things absolutely forbidden: the descendents
of the Trini will tolerate nothing less.  Even cybernetically enhansed
people will be casted out of the better eating extablishments, and
brutalized by young thugs if the enhansement is obvious. (And believe
me, these folk carefully watch strangers for even the slightest sign of
artifical anything!)

