
  PHYSICAL

   Capon, viewed from orbit, is an attractive blue-green world. The
   visitor may notice the vast ice fields that cover large areas of the
   land masses. Also of note are the World Spine Mountains, a famed
   destination for sport climbers for centuries.

   Capon has a thin atmosphere, with a almost non-existent ozone layer.
   Caponese life has adapted to the harsh conditions, and the colonists
   all tend to be of a very dark shade. Travellers, however, must take
   precautions against high UV levels. Since much of the valley is
   snow-covered throughout the year, exposed human eyes can suffer
   permanent damge in a matter of minutes due to "snow blindness". Eye
   protection is a must, and either fully covering garments or a strong
   sunblock is needed to avoid a painful melanoma.

   There are two main continents; Nord, which is ice bound, and Pillagi,
   where most settlement has occurred along the Lanzecki river basin. The
   Lanzecki, which flows 12,000km from the World Spine to the Hester
   Ocean, is a meandering, slow river. Its flood plain provides for much
   of the agricultural output of the world.


  HISTORY

   Capon was settled in 124, with colonists drawn from the Deneb sector.
   The first colony failed within 50 years due to poor planning. In 180,
   an Imperial Navy base was started on the site of the first colony.
   Ministry of Colonization officials scoured the area for colonists who
   could stand the extreme UV levels. The result was one of the oddest
   collections of people ever to settle a world. While regulations were
   followed in skills available and male-female ratios, etc.; most of the
   colonists had never met each other until they were on the transports.
   The second colony was established in the Lanzecki River's broad delta
   region. After clearing the heavy jungle, the region was found to be
   very fertile, supporting a wide variety of crops along with
   aquaculture.

   The Second Frontier War saw the invasion of Capon by Sword Worlds
   forces. An attempt to deny the Naval Base to the Imperium, the
   occupation led to a bitter guerilla war that last three years
   (617-620). The Occupation, as it is remembered, has left a lasting
   dislike of off-worlders in general and Sword Worlders in particular.


  SOCIETY

   Caponese society is best characterized as conservative and polite.
   Manners are considered to be of paramount importance in social
   situations. Rudeness will rarely result in violence, but the offender
   will be ignored. Caponese dress in head-to-toe outfits, rarely
   exposing skin to the harmful rays of Cyr. Since UV protection goggles
   are mandatory, it is considered very rude to look an ungoggled person
   in the eyes. Among family and close friends, however, there is no
   nudity taboo. Indeed, communal bathing is part of the Brushlander
   culture.

   There are two distinct sub-cultures on Capon; the majority who live in
   the Lanszeki valley, and the Brushlanders who follow the Basa herds.
   Brushlanders are nomadic, living in massive ATVs. They use kians and
   light grav vehicles to monitor their stock.

   Brushlanders barely acknowledge the existence of the world government,
   preferring their own clan structure. Most Brushlander clans consist of
   several families of 40-60 individuals. Brushlander and mainstream
   Caponese come together annually when the clans bring their herds into
   railheads for auction. At these times, the clan council judges
   disputes between families, allocates goods and profit from the sale,
   and makes arrangements for clan members who wish to leave for any
   reason (usually the clan member is welcome to return at any time).


  GOVERNMENT

   Capon is governed by a Senate that controls appointments to various
   posts. The world is divided into four districts, with Burton's Landing
   constituting a seperate district of its own. Seats are allocated based
   on a districts economic output, resulting in a constant shift in the
   balance of power. The Senators from each district elect one of their
   number to serve on the Executive Council, this body holds the purse
   strings of the Treasury.

   The Senate is popularly elected every five years. Elections are
   staggered, so that any given year 1/5 of the seats are contested.
   Caponese politics are fractious, with several candidates vying for any
   given seat. One wit observed: "Caponese are polite to a fault, and
   that fault is politics."

   Everyday administration is handled by various Ministries. Ministers
   are appointed by the Senate, and nepotism seems to be the rule.
   Lower-level bureaucrats are found through civil service exams, and
   tend to make up for their superiors' failings.

   Law enforcement is under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice
   and the National Police. Laws are mainly intended to preserve order,
   and allow for a wide range of expression. Police tend to be armed with
   non-lethal weapons, and act more as mediators whenever possible. Those
   arrested will be tried before a tribunal consisting of a Senator, a
   police official, and a citizen selected at random. The accused are
   considered innocent until proven guilty. Punishment is slated more
   towards conspicuous public service and embarrassment.


  VISITING CAPON

   The first thing a visitor to Capon will notice is the small orbital
   port. Currently being upgraded as part of the Phase 2 Starport
   project, the Up-port is crowded for a class A facility. Once cleared
   by the RQS and Caponese Customs, your ship will land at the First Try
   Memorial Starport. Built on the site of the failed colony, the main
   terminal has an interesting display of artifacts found during the
   port's construction in the late 700s. Ground transport to the capital
   of Burton's Crossing is usually handled by high speed Mag-Lev trains,
   but an option for the traveller with more time is a trip up river on
   one of the many cruise ships.

   Once in Burton's Crossing, (pop: 6.4 million) there are a variety of
   hotels and entertainments. It is important to remember that acts
   perceived as rude will result in a shunning, even from merchants and
   police. Most of the planets economic activity is handled here, rather
   than at the starport, due to the nature of the world's exports. A
   brisk futures market can be found in the Poolside district, and is
   fascinating to watch.

