Mirayn/Jungleblut 


 Planet in the Jungleblut subsector of the Far Frontiers sector. The official planetary statistics are based on the League survey of 1049.


 Planet: First of six in the system. Period 259.6 days. Density 0.98 standard. Equatorial diameter 15,276 km. Mean surface gravity 1.10 G. Rotational period 33 hours, 41 minutes, 3.98 seconds. Axial inclination 3 degrees 47' 6.8". Two continents, Grenven and Momande. Swathed in low-lying cloud cover and a nearly perpetual mist, the tropical regions of Mirayn have proven virtually impossible to map even through orbital survey procedures. While sophisticated scanning techniques have established the broad outlines of lakes and rivers, detailed survey of this world can only be carried out from the ground.

 The planet is sometimes referred to as "the archaeologist's paradise", as a result of the wide variety of ruins left by a flourishing Tech 3 culture some 5,000 years before.

Society: Mirayn's natives -- known to the offworlders as "gogs" -- are of minor concern, and are commonly seen only in the Outback or the settlements alonge Momande's coast. The human colony continues to support a limited amount of agriculture and some industry; most of the planetary revenue is based, however, on the various offshoots of the tourist trade. The government of Mirayn, a council of ruling landowners, is active in the promotion of tourism and takes an interest in the world's antiquities. Though they lack the manpower to themselves hunt for possible archaeological finds, the government does pay for artifacts from the Outback or the locations of major sites. Unfortunately, scales of payment are rather low, which has encouraged attempts at smuggling artifacts offworld where they command high prices among interested collectors. To combat this, the ruling council has imposed a number of strict laws against removal of antiquities from the planet. Mirayn's small standing army is employed almost exclusively in the enforcement of these laws.

 History: First surveyed by Frontiers Developments, Inc., and then colonized by settlers from Selaek some 375 years ago, Mirayn was first intended as an agricultural colony. Conditions on the world hampered the growth of large-scale farming, however, leaving the planet trapped with a subsistence level economy. The lack of worthwhile raw materials prevented the formation of widespread industries as well, further hindering colonial progress.

 Mirayn's capital is known as "Capital City" and is also the location of the Starport (Mirayn Starport).

 Scientific interest, followed by considerable attention from offworld tourists, was sparked by the discovery of extensive ruins left by a native civilization in the coastal regions of Grenven, the first human settled continent on the planet. An even richer field of archaeological endeavor was opened when humans penetrated Momande, the larger, but also less known continent. Small settlements, the largest a city named Val Preszar, were established along the coast of Momande and began to cater to the needs of parties investigating what became known as "The Outback".

 Investigation of various ruins has led scientists to venture the opinion that a native culture of about Tech Level 3 flourished on both continents. The collapse of the civilization left a few scattered aboriginal savages. As these findings were published scientific interest in Mirayn faded, though tourism continued to be a fairly steady source of revenue for the government. Amateur archaeologists still made occasional visits to the planet, but by and large it dropped into obscurity.

