Zdalzi (0237) is the homeworld of an alien minor race of the same 
 name (in the Zhodani tongue). The Zdalzi are short, fat humanoids with 
 long arms and faces, descended from omnivore stock. They have no hair 
 on their bodies or the tops of their heads, but have strands of hair 
 under the chin and from the lower half of the back of the skull. There 
 are 54 governments; the most significant four having 20%, 15%, 10% and 
 10% of the total population. 

 The largest of these, which boasts the main starport, has taken over a 
 number of small nations through military conquest. Most of the 
 population is in poverty, living a primitive agrarian lifestyle of 
 back-breaking toil. The military is therefore a popular choice of 
 career because it allows the fastest, though most dangerous, road to 
 the top of the power tree. The government has an extreme "survival of 
 the fittest" philosophy; the rulers believe that they have power by 
 being superior and can therefore do whatever they like to their 
 inferiors. Some other governments on the world follow the same 
 philosophy. The economy is tightly controlled and efficient, making it 
 the best country to trade with on purely economic terms. They are 
 attempting to secure all offworld trade for themselves by penalising 
 merchants who have previously traded with other nations. 

 The Zdalzi tend to fight their own battles and so there is no alliance 
 of countries against the largest nation. This trait also leads to many 
 cases of parts of nations seceding (usually involving civil wars) and 
 in rebellious actions intended to change government policies. 

 The major four nations have purchased space- and star-ships, for 
 military and economic purposes. They send some of their people 
 offworld for training and some of these later serve aboard merchant 
 ships for extra experience (often for little or no pay, in return for 
 extra training). A few Zdalzi are sufficiently rich to have purchased 
 their own free traders, which they use to boost their own riches and 
 to gain access to political assistance, equipment and knowledge that 
 would otherwise be unavailable. 

 Zdalzi and their ships will sometimes clash when they meet offworld, 
 reflecting the political situation back home. 

 The system consists of a K6 V primary with two companions, the second 
 of which (DM) is in a far orbit. This star itself has a companion, 
 making four for the system. The fourth star orbits at a angle relative 
 to the ecliptic of the K6 V, so there is no danger of impact with the 
 other stars. Zdalzi itself has a 40 hour rotational period, which is 
 disconcerting to some visitors. 
