Didtayinzhial (0834) is a tidally locked world with habitable plateaux 
 in the highest mountains of the world (the atmospheric pressure being 
 too dense at lower altitudes). These are mostly populated by an early 
 Iron Age society, rather like the ancient forebears of the Scots of 
 Rom's Loch subsector, except with psionics. 

 The inhabitants speak a dialect of the Zhodani tongue and possess 
 artefacts that are believed to be of Zhodani naval origin. The oldest 
 settlement still uses part of an extensive cave system which appears 
 to be laser drilled and there is other evidence of Zhodani 
 technological culture (e.g. the oldest parts of Zdantich castle). The 
 exact details of the origin of the natives are unknown. There are two 
 Zhodani research teams present (both with mixed sociologists and 
 archaeologists) and a few individual researchers. 

 Certain knowledge and practices have been passed down through the 
 generations as customs (such as cleanliness is a really good idea if 
 you don't want to die of disease), even some that would not normally 
 be known to a culture of this tech level. The most unusual of these is 
 that of psionic training; individuals with such talent are prized and 
 rewarded. It is almost certain that the people would not have survived 
 without them. Among other things, the psionic talents allow the 
 various clans to communicate with each other. Contact with offworlders 
 in recent centuries has further boosted the skill level of their own 
 psionic talents. 

 About 300 years ago, Chezh Daznish (0833), occupied an unused plateau 
 and used it to grow various crops, particularly Nimbusweed. The colony 
 has little or no manufacturing capability, importing all equipment 
 from Chezh Daznish. This apparently "magical" equipment is used by 
 some clansmen employees in the fields. The system starport, which has 
 only minimal facilities for the starport type, is also here. 

 The colony also functions as a mediator on disputes between clans and 
 therefore has some influence over them. The world is rated as a colony 
 of Chezh Daznish (which explains the government code) but other stats 
 come from the clansmen. 