COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: BUS/POL, AUTHORITY CIN/AUBAINE RC ASSEMBLY HALL, AUBAINE (0738/AUBAINE, A78A884-C), 317-1201 KEYWORDS: CSAARC, AAS, FIJA
Speaking against "the inefficiencies of Efficiency," junior Fijan delegate Catarrhina Mohler launched a campaign to rationalize I I the "pervasive" influence of the Committee for the Standardization of Armament and Ammunition in the Reformation Coalition, better known as CSAARC.

"Although the Committee fulfills an important role in husbanding the scarce resources of this Coalition and should continue to do so, certain of its in itiatives come under the heading of micromanagement and actuaIly waste energy, rather than conserving it. Now is the time, while CSAARC is still a relatively new organization, that we establish guidelines to ensure that CSAARC's oversight is confined to the rational use of resources, rather than the worship of the least common denominator."

Speaker Mohler introduced as evidence the Reformation Coalition Automatic Assault Shotgun (RCAAS), recently adopted by CSAARC as the standard combat shotgun of the RC forces. Mohler demonstrated that, although the weapon itself is manufactured at tech level 10, it is not completed until it is fitted with a laser sight manufactured on a tech 9 world. Because tech 10 worlds are capable of manufacturing more compact laser sights, the installation of a TL-9 sight on the weapon results in a combat shotgun "which is 40% more expensive than it needs to be, and which is 7% heavier than it ought to be." Mohler also produced internal RCES reports which evaluate the weapon as overweight.

"These are not the type of savings which we can afford. Rather than seeking to divide the production of each weapon across tech level 9 and 10 worlds, CSAARC's efforts would be better spent ensuring that each world's productive capacity was used to build complete systems. This would mean that Trybec and Fija would install locally built sights on locally built weapons, while worlds like Oriflamme, Baldur and Nike Nimbus were allowed to concentrate their full attention on building weapons from start to finish that are optimized for their technology."

Mohler asked that the Assembly create a panel to evaluate, define and, if necessary, modify the mandate of CSAARC. Mohler's motion was tabled after minimal discussion. Delegates from Oriflamme, originally one of the staunchest opponents of the creation of CSAARC, provided the margin of defeat.

CSAARC was established in 1200 to coordinate the design and production of weapons and ammunition by Coalition memberworlds. The Assembly sought to preserve the Coalition's limited manufacturing base by concentrating it on the production and support of standardized designs optimized for available technology, and based on common relic equipment. CSAARC has since expanded its mandate to include the creation of new designs unique to the Coalition, for example, the controversial 5.5mm assault rifle.
