COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: COV/MIL, AUTHORITY CIN/AUBAINE RCES HQ AUBAINE (0738/AUBAINE, A78A884-C), 341-1201 KEYWORDS: COSMIC FIRE, DROYNE, PROTEST
Reporter Cabrielle Diabla, twice winner of the Nimbus Palm for Excellence in journalism has filed a freedom of information demand with the RCES to gain access to orders and planning documents pertaining to "Operation Cosmic Fire."

Diabla made a public statement to call attention to the demand which she was filing, and to explain the background of the demand. Diabla explained that Cosmic Fire took place on Daaliisa (2725/Promise/Diaspora) some two months ago, and that involved attacks on "apparently peaceful alien Droyne," and that for the operation the troops were obliged to remove insignia, and take steps that this operation would not be connected to the Reformation Coalition. "This operation was piratical in appearance, if not in fact," Diabla said.

"I am not some fruit-loop peacenik who imagines evil motivations whenever a forceful act of will is committed. I am pursuing this story because I was aboard the ship when this operation was conducted, and I spoke to the troops when they left and hey returned. They were deeply disturbed by the operation. They felt they had done something wrong. I am not looking to blame these troops for carrying out a mission in good faith. What I am looking for is the reasons why the mission was ordered."

Cabrielle Diabla is a well-known and experienced military reporter. She has accompanied and covered numerous operations under Dawn League and Coalition auspices for several years, including the famous annexation of Vezina. Diabla wrote a book on the Vezina operations, entitled, "Say Good Night, Hoss," which won her her second Nimbus Palm, in 1200.

Diabla's demand for documentation is complicated by the fact that not all RC memberworlds recognize full information rights, which allows such worlds to deny access to commonly held RC documents in which they have a proprietary interest.
