COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AUBAINE RCES HQ AUBAINE (0738/AU BAINE, A78A884-C), 348-1201 KEY1NIIRDS: TRIGGER. RCES, COURT MARTIAL, MASSACRE 
After months of speculation, the RCES has lifted the veil of secrecy that was wrapped around the most recent mission of RCS Trigger following her return from Diaspora in Scorpio. Trigger's captain and several ot her officers are to be tried for dereliction of duty in allowing the alleged massacre of civilians on Montezuma on her last cruise, RCES officials announced today.

Details are still sketchy, but it appears that several of Trigger's ground troops were killed by unusually high technology weapons in the hands of unknown Montezuman troops over a period of several days, and an attempt to capture the assailants misfired and resulted in the death of as many as 500 Montezuman civilians. Testimony gathered from Trigger's crew, and reportedly from Montezuman witnesses and undercover informants, indicates that the operation was poorly planned and degenerated into a vengeance mission.

Anonymous sources report that the "Trigger Incident" is proof of the wisdom of the RCN's program to divest RC-contrdled vessels of all private ownership shares. Because of the rapidity with which the Dawn League (and later, the Coalition) had to assemble a space force, itwas often obliged to obtain starships by buying a bare majority of iharer of the vessel, leaving the remainder of the vessel's ownership in private hands. It has been argued that such private or speculative ownerrhip runs counter to the ideal of military order and discipline advocated by many RC leaders. In Assembly session, Senior Balduri Delegate has referred to speculative free-lance operations as "no better thah reckless privateering, one step away from piracy."

CIN sources confirm that Trigger carried a 44% private ownership load, and that her crew contained a high proportion of free-lance personnel, both situations acknowledged by the RCN to contribute to "decreased mission reliability and performance standards."
