COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AURORA RC GOVT HOUSE AURORA (O535/AUBAINE, 8576646-8), 96-1201
Coalition Secretary General Lon Maggart appeared today in a remembrance ceremony at the monument to the Twelve Traders, on the first anniversary of its dedication here at the Reformation Coalition Navy headquarters. Maggart cited the Coalition's detennination to spare no effort to recover or confirm the fates of all crews. He honored the crews by calling them "the first ripple of a wave of recovery and renewal that will sweep across human space, and which will know no shores. It was their willingness to face this danger that calls us to follow them, and it is they whowill someday be remembered as those who first painted a new dawn across human history.
Insiders say that his remarks were timed to assist him in his struggle to pass the so-called "Ship Bill," intended to appropriate funds for two additional Aurora-class clippers for RCES forces. Citing budgetary limits, the Coalition Assembly has proposed deferring the purchase of the keels that will be laid down at Aubaine's Standard Astrotronics yard later this month. The options for these vessels would then be picked up by member worlds, presumably Oriflamme. That would make these the first Aurora-class clippers not directly controlled by RCES, a move which Maggart strongly opposes, and to which he alluded in his address today. "These traders did not go into the unknown piecemeal. They went out under one banner, and under one vision, and it is that same vision that calls us after them. Had they sailed away each for her own reason, or only for the benefit of an elite few, their loss would not move us,and their sacrifice would not unite us. History is made not by an aggregate of individuals, but by diverse people united by a vision that pares away their selfish appetites and calls them to actions beyond themselves, in the name of something greater than themselves. 

At the conclusion of his remarks, Maggart laid a wreath on the Trader monument To the Dawn," which was dedicated a year ago today. He departed immediately, as he is scheduled to preside one week from today over the Assembly on the first anniversary of its establishment.

Among the assembled observers, Maggart's remarks were taken as criticism of recent unilateral operations undertaken by Oriflamme and other worlds on the trailing face. They were also clearly a response to the Centrist charges that Aubaine and its supporters are opposed to a Coalition Constitution, and seek, in the words of Count Bourgund of Oriflamme, "to preserve a flaccid assemblage of half-hearted govemments, devoid of structure, devoid of vision, devoid of a future."

A Centrist-leaning dignitarypresent today was overheard to call Maggart's speech "more of that Aubanian pious preaching. This is real life, not Sunday school. The clipper ships at issue in the Assembly will be the eleventh and twelfth clipper hulls lad down.These two building ways will be available following the delivery of Thunderchild and ex-llilek Kuligoon to RCES.

The 12 trading vessels honored were dispatched in 1199 from various worlds around the periphery of the then Dawn League, with hopes that they would open up new star faring contact in the Wilds of Diaspora. As the months went by without word from any of these ships, speculation grew increasingly strident, resulting in the dispatch of several armed rescue missions to recover the crews or to discover information about their fates. To date, portions of only three of the crews have been recovered, and five of the traders have never been accounted for.
