GENERAL BACKGROUND 

Magyar sector is the spinward section of the Solomani Sphere.  It
contains 516 star systems and is bounded by Canopus sector to
rimward, the Solomani Rim to trailing, the Dark Nebula to spinward,
and Daibei sector to coreward.  The sector capital of Magyar is
Uebelhor, in subsector J.

Magyar has always been a fringe sector, although the Terran
Confederation settled the sector extensively by -1770.  The Long
Night knocked most of those settlements far back or destroyed them
completely.  Subsectors D (Gadarur) & H (Walpurgis) have been
settled the longest, as you can see below:

-3500  During the First Imperium, subsectors D & part of H were 
       part of the fringes of Vilani space.  SOURCE:  Megatraveller
       Referee's Manual, p. 105.

-2204  During the Rule of Man, the Terran Confederation expanded
       into subsector L and part of P, while also establishing
       Terran control of the old Vilani territory.  SOURCE:
       Megatraveller Referee's Manual, p. 106.

-2136  Aslan achieve space travel.  SOURCE:  Alien Module 1, p. 35.

-1776  The Long Night begins for humaniti.  By this time, the 
       Solomani had already spread spinward of Kusyu, the Aslan
       homeworld in the Dark Nebula sector.  During the Long Night,
       some human worlds were absorbed into the Aslan Hierate,
       where they remain to this day.  SOURCE:  Alien Module 1,
       p. 3.

-1118  During the Aslan Border Wars, Magyar sector escaped
       curiously unscathed.  Instead of expanding to trailing, the
       Aslan launched a coreward attack from L'aheako sector (Dark
       Nebula) through Aeitle Sakh sector (Reaver's Deep) and
       against Magyar's coreward neighbor sector of Daibei,
       which bore the brunt of the fighting.  SOURCE: Megatraveller
       Imperial Encyclopedia, frontispiece; Alien Module 1.

380    Peace of Ftahair ends Aslan Border Wars.  Alien Module 1,
       p. 35.

589    By the time of the First Frontier War (589-604), the Magyar 
       sector had been inhabited by the Solomani for over 2,000
       years.

990    Subsectors D, G, H, J, K, L, & P of Magyar were involved in
       the Solomani Rim War (990-1002).  SOURCE:  Megatraveller
       Imperial Encyclopedia, frontispiece.

1002   The need to expand drives the Solomani to renew hostilities
       against the Aslan.  The Solomani are opposed by the Aslan 
       clans of Yerlyariuwo & Khaukheairl.  SOURCE:  Alien Module
       1, p. 3.

1111   Classic Traveller campaigns begin.  By this time, the
       Solomani have occupied Magyar sector for about 3,000 years.
       Subsectors D & H had been inhabited for 4,400 years!

1116   In the Rebellion era, subsectors C, D, H, & P were again
       disputed ground between Imperium and Solomani.  SOURCE:
       Megatraveller Imperial Encyclopedia, p. 4.

Magyar is currently controlled by the Solomani Confederation, which
"covers about 2,400 worlds in six sectors" and "claims nearly a
thousand more worlds in Imperial, Aslan, and neutral space."  This
claim is obviously the source of continuing enmity between the
Aslan and the Solomani.  The Imperium is more forgiving of the
Aslan, and the Imperial population is made up of about 3% Aslan.  
SOURCE:  Alien Module 1.

Magyar is a well-established sector with a rich history of human
habitation stretching three thousand years into the past.  It has 
always been a fringe sector, however, caught in the outskirts of
Vilani, Aslan, & Solomani space.  Because of this the Long Night
hit the region hard and technological levels remain much lower
than in the Solomani Rim.  This has also created a great number of
extreme conditions within the various systems, and pocket empires,
ruthless police states, and lawless freebooter worlds are the
rule rather than the exception.  Trade links to the Solomani Rim
The detente that exists between the Imperium and the Confederation
allows these trade links to remain open, so Magyar officials do
their best to discourage Solomani terrorist attacks launched from
this sector.

Magyar's proximity to the Aslan Heirate reinforces the need for
cooperation not only with the Imperium, but also with the various
disparate societies of Magyar itself.  One example of this is the 
Ockian Ring, a virtual empire unto itself within the Confederation.
Like most of Magyar's many pocket empires, it swears allegiance
to the Confederation more from need than from desire.

                    TRADE IN MAGYAR SECTOR

The Ockian Ring of Worlds is one of three major trade routes within
this sector.  Each of these routes is a circular path or run over
which travel a variety of lines.  The Ockian Ring and the Keyor Run
are the two small runs, and are used by many traders.  The largest
of the three runs is the Blackjack-Ramanian circuit, which only the
megacorps have the resources and connections to milk adequately.
Nevertheless, Magyar is an excellent sector for the enterprising 
free trader, with many short jumps and a large number of worlds
where the law level is neglible.

Imperium regions of Magyar are served by Solar Shipping, based out
of Terra in the Solomani Rim, as well as the megacorps of Ling
Standard Products and Naasirka.  Confederation regions of Magyar
are served by Transstar megacorp (based out of Jardin in the
Solomani Rim), especially in subsectors K, L, N, O, & P. [SOURCE: 
Book 7, Merchant Prince, p. 12]  Two other well-established but
sector-wide companies are McKillen Lines (based out of Uebelhor)
and Vandok Shipping (based out of Ock).  There is also an
aggressive fledgling company called Overthrust Inc. (based out of
Keyor).
                ALIEN SENTIENTS OF MAGYAR SECTOR

The majority of Magyar's sentient races are friendly to humans
-- the Masuk-Safor, the Morgenstern Airlords, the Raaqua, the 
Whaiz and the Zil --  and all but the Zil are spacefaring.  There
are only two races hostile to humans -- the Akzukayya and the
Obopodel -- and neither is spacefaring.  There are two neutral 
races -- the Glidips and the Grayhost -- of which only the Grayhost
is spacefaring.  Two other sentient races may exist (the Callers-
in-the-Dark, & the Jakaso crystals), but the existence of the
Callers and the sentience of the Jakaso remains unproven.  Only
two of these races achieved star travel before aided by humans,
these being the Masuk-Safor and the Grayhost.

AKZUKAYYA:  A race of a 50 kg. insectoid carnivores (killers).  The
adults have six legs, two manipulative arms, and a prehensile tail,
all encased in a thick armor equivalent to cloth armor.  They are
extremely fierce and territorial.  Because of their warlike nature,
they are currently interdicted on their homeworld.  Homeworld: 
Namedih.

CALLERS-IN-THE-DARK:  A legendary race of ghosts or mist creatures
who live in deep caverns.  According to most accounts, the Callers
appear as a rainbow of color, swirling before the viewer.  Source
of Legend:  Koskiku.

GLIDIPS (aka. McNellan's Snake, or Glidersnakes):  A race of 50 kg.
flying omnivores (eaters) with a rough green skin that counts as
jack armor.  A small head and snakelike body are supported 
in flight by a trio of small overlapping frilly wings on either
side, with the rear set of wings meeting behind the body proper.
Along the bottom of their body are two rows of legs, like those 
of a centipede.  Glidips are non-spacefaring and communication with
humaniti remains limited, but vids and stills of Glidip art are 
popular through-out the sector.  Homeworld:  McNellen.

THE GRAYHOST:  Colonies of microscopic organisms who unite into a
single sentient amphibious entity ranging in size from 50 to 400
kg. or more.  The Grayhost are an ancient spacefaring race, but
communication between the Grayhost and humaniti remains minimal.
Homeworld:  Leikung.

JAKASO:  A crystalline race, typically orange in color, with whom
communication remains impossible.  The possibility of sentience has
been determined from growth patterns.  The Jakaso crystals do not
seem to be related to the Zil.  Homeworld:  Ziarko.

MASUK-SAFOR ("They who Pursue"):  A starfaring race of 1,600 kg.
marine carnivores (chasers).  The "Masuk" are narrow blue cones
centered around a jet propulsion system, with a ring of five small
manipulative arms arranged around the mouth/ramjet intake.  The
Masuk are practice Buddhism and are devoted members of the 
Confederation.  They also regard the Dolphins as unworthy
rivals, and believe that Dolphins should be replaced by the Masuk
as the new allies for humans in the water.  Homeworld:  Tooma.

MORGENSTERN AIRLORDS:  A race of winged men with black skin and
weighing an average of 100 kg.  They have small, almost midget
bodies compared to the enormous leather wings projecting from 
their backs, and their eyes are much larger than typical.  They
can fly in dense atmospheres, glide in standard atmospheres, and
are landbound in thin atmosphere.  Homeworld:  Morgenstern.
     ST:2d6-3  DX:2d6  EN:2d6+3  IN:2d6  ED:2d6-3  SO:2d6-3

OBOPODEL:  A race of 3,200 kg. marine carnivores (sirens)
resembling the giant squid of ancient Terra, the Obopodel are
hostile to all humans and non-spacefaring.  Homeworld:  Winneauer.

RAAQUA:  A race of 6 kg. airborne filters.  They look like 
jellyfish floating in the sky, and are reknowned as existential
philosophers and excellent medics.  Homeworld:  Sylva
  ST:1d2  DX:2d6+3  EN:1d6  IN:2d6  ED:1d6  SO:1d6  

WHAIZ:  25 kg. green insectoid omnivores (gatherers), with a 
a puffy sponge-like torso that serves as their digestive system,
picking up seeds after they are flailed from the stalks by 4
long torso claws. Four short but sturdy legs support the torso.
The Whaiz are known to be skillful sculptors, pilots, navigators,
and gunners.  Homeworld:  Kemper.
     ST:1d6  DX:2d6+2  EN:2d6  IN:2d6  ED:2d6  SO:2D6-3

ZIL:  A crystalline race that communicates by electrical impulses. 
In effect, they are living computers.  The Zil appear as furry
yellow crystalline growths, something like sulphur growths.  Each
individual zil only grows to 1-2 kg., but a large field of the Zil
is a beautiful sight, a brilliant yellow with message sparks
passing from one Zil to another each moment.  The Zil trade their
computing abilities to humans in return for chemicals that help
them grow.  Homeworld:  Ramanar.


               OTHER RACES FOUND IN MAGYAR SECTOR

BOTTLENOSE DOLPHINS (Tursiops truncatus galactus):  Travelling in
their "t-suits" ("travel suits":  grav-powered environment suits
with waldos), Dolphins belief in equality of all, and of course
consider themselves equal to any other race.  Length = up to 3-4
meters; Mass = up to 220-400 kg.
     ST:2d6+2  EN:2d6+2  DX:2d6  IN:2d6  ED:2d6  SO:2d6-4

WHITESIDE DOLPHINS (Lagenorhyncus obliquidens galactus):  Length =
up to 2.1-2.4 meters; Mass = up to 150 kg.  
     ST:2d6+1  EN:2d6+2  DX:2d6  IN:2d6  ED:2d6  SO:2d6-4
