WARINIR/DAIBEI (0507 A889978-F) DATE: 131-1124 
Professor Ililek Kuligaan has been, since 213-1123, fleeing a warrant for his arrest issued by Archduke Dulinor himself, Kuligaan's public remarks on 212-1123, critical of the Rebellion, and by extension, the self-proclaimed Emperor Dulinor, have sparked numerous responses, in addition to Dulinor's. 

For three quarters of a year, Kuligaan's whereabouts were unknown. Then on 126-1124 it was announced that he had met with Duke Craig at Warinir. Following several days of requests, Professor Kuligaan finally agreed to meet for an interview with a member of the TAS News Service Warinir branch. Although he refused to discuss the details behind his meeting with Duke Craig, he did reveal more of his outspoken views on the Rebellion. The following is an excerpt from that fascinating interview. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TNS: How long until we see the Imperium reunited? 
IK: Never. 
TNS: So you feel it will take a long time, then. 
IK: No, I said never, and I mean never. There will be no reformed Imperium; there can be no peace or unity among these factions. No, we must go farther into the darkness before we can see the light again. That is proper, that is proportionate. 
TNS: Proper? By whose standards? 
IK: You see, if peace were to come now, that would justify what has already happened. Surely even you have read the figure, tens of billions dead. The horror that we have already visited upon each other, that would somehow become acceptable. Leaders would be able to countenance other wars just like this one. "You see," they would say, "we could do that again and still pull back and be okay again." That cannot happen. Peace now would redeem what we have done, and that is just not possible. It is irredeemable; the sin has gone too far. 
TNS: The sin? Against God? 
IK: No, not against God; against the only thing you can sin against, humanity. 
TNS: So you feel that it is only humans that matter in this equation. 
IK: No, you idiot. Who assigned you to this story, anyway? [The sin is] Against the thing inside every living being that makes it unique. The Vargr must call it vargranity, the Hivers call it hivranity or some such. Whatever word you happen to hang on it locally, the object is the same. But the word has to be local to you if it is to have any power for you. Yes, I call it humanity. And the Vargr have it, the Hivers have, the Asllan have it, the K'kree have it. You might even have it. The issue is -- 
TNS: Are you a member of the Virasa faith? 
IK: Do all reporters have such short attention spans? The issue is -- and by the way, the phrase is, "Are you a Virasin?" -- that what we have done is a crime against all life, all decency, and not in a contextual way, but in an absolute way. We cannnot put a happy face on this, brush ourselves off, and go on. We are corrupt, we are polluted, we are death to each other. And in this case, yes, the issue is about humans, homo sapiens. We have to see our way through this hell that we've created and see to it that it does not happen again. There is something inside usthat has allowed us to embark on this monstrous war, and we must burn it out of us. This war, if all of these deaths are to have any meaning, must force us to come to grips with the fact that we cannot remain this way if we expect to have an interstellar society. 
If, on the other hand, we can justify to ourselves what we have done here in this "Rebellion," then we can never be saved, which is to say, we can never save ourselves. 