Credits 

   
HIWG Australia
Yiklerzdanzh Project Credits

     _________________________________________________________________
   
   This survey has been a labour of love by HIWG Australia. We hope you
   enjoy the sector and find the documents useful. For other HIWG project
   work, see the main History of the Imperium Working Group home page.
   For further information on Traveller, see the Imperium Games Home
   Page.
   
Sector Development Team

   Project Coordinator: David Schneider
   Editors: David Schneider and Grant Sinclair
   Typesetting and Internet upload: Grant Sinclair
   
Specific Developers:

   Talpaku Development: Grant Sinclair
   Meichntid Ibl Development: Angus Foster, Steven Fernandez, David
   Schneider, Grant Sinclair
   Carillon Development: Corran Webster, David Schneider, Grant Sinclair
   Vlazhdumecta Development: David Thornell, Grant Sinclair
   S'raak Development: Paul O'Grady, David Schneider
   Rom's Loch Development: Geoff M. Kelly, Grant Sinclair
   
Additional Development

   Ben Arnall, Michael Butler, Mike Dooley, Gustav Ness, Paul G. Ridgway
   
Acknowledgments

   Special thanks to Chuck Kallenbach II for advice and coordination with
   Vanguard Reaches sector.
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   All contents copyright FarFuture Enterprises and the authors.
   Comments to grants@dove.net.au





 Sector Timeline 

Compiled Yiklerzdanzh Sector Timeline
Version 6 (20 November 1994)

David Schneider (with Grant Sinclair)
5 East Avenue
Allenby Gardens
South Australia 5065
Australia

INITIAL ZHODANI EXPANSION

-8000  Carillon reach TL 1
-5500  Carillon reach TL 2
-5415  Zhodani discover jump drive
-5120  Zhodani discover Addaxur
-5110  Zhodani contact Addaxur

SECESSION OF THE MEICHNTID IBL

-5109  Meichntid Ibl founded, start of Shadow War. Secession at this time 
       succeeds because the Zho are not large enough to counter TL disadvantage
       with sheer numbers.
-5100  Zhodani scouts attempting to flank Meichntid Ibl discover Talpaku 
       homeworld and briefly observe Talpaku; Zhodani scout ship surveys 
       Carillon system. Flanking attempt abandoned since there is an effective
       3 pc barrier on the subsector E/I boundary (wilderness refuelling 
       impossible at 0421); Zhodani mount no further scouting missions. To 
       trailing, the Zhodani also enter Afachtiabr sector and contact 
       Vlazhdumecta.

At the end of this period, the Meichntid Ibl control much of subsectors B and C
and most of F and G. Shadow War going strong. Few Zho worlds; no other 
interstellar states exist.

VLAZHDUMECTA COLONISATION

-5000  Zhodani continue outward expansion; Vlazhdumecta expand through 
       Afachtiabr sector; Carillon reach TL 3
-4900  Vlazhdumecta Empire collapse complete, link to Yiklerzdanzh colonies 
       abandoned, collapse of these colonies under way; Carillon discover 
       principles of their genetic code, sparking a technological explosion
-4800  Carillon reach effective TL 6
-4700  Carillon reach effective TL 8
-4650  Carillon fight civil war using biological weapons, Carillon thrown into 
       dark age
-4400  Talpaku reach TL 5, Zhodani transmissions detected and reply sent.
-4364  Carillon Dark Age ends
-4340  Talpaku first manned space flight
-4300  Talpaku reach TL 6, establish first offworld colony
-4200  Carillon reach TL 9
-4192  Carillon develop first bioengineered rocket, first Carillon in space
-4119  Talpaku begin TOre WarsU, reach TL 7-8
-4091  End of Talpaku TOre Wars'
-4050  Carillon breed and release interstellar probes
-4034  Zhodani lose interest in Yiklerzdanzh expansion after discovery that 
       projector device is accurate
-4000  Zhodani launch first Core Expedition

By the end of this period, the Vlazhdumecta Empire has long collapsed and their
Yiklerzdanzh colonies, also collapsed, are isolated The Meichntid Ibl have lost
some ground in the continuing Shadow War but are still a potent force. They do
not know that the Vlazhdumecta exist. Zhodani wish only to expand where
involved in the war effort with the Meichntid Ibl and some captured MI worlds.

RISE OF THE TALPAKU AND IZRATS KRIEZHLAS

-3995  Xenophobia begins to unite the Talpaku, interstellar missions planned
-3915  Talpaku reach TL 8-9
-3500  Nadir of collapse of Vlazhdumecta Yiklerzdanzh colonies
-3000  Talpaku have colonised 5 systems, founding of Talpaku Communality
-2800  Zhodani first contact with Vargr
-2700  Talpaku reach TL 10 (no jump drive) and trigger Zhodani interdiction 
       probe; Vlazhdumecta world (Qrazhazhjal) regains TL 9 and begins 
       reunification of Vlazhdumecta systems in Yiklerzdanzh
-2500  Vlazhdumecta systems in Yiklerzdanzh unify as the Izrats Kriezhlas
       Unity; Zhodani have reached TL 12
-2400  Zhodani survey ship recontacts Izrats Kriezlas Unity
-2280  Zhodani offer Vlazdumecta jump 2 and 3
-2000  Zhodani contact Vilani traders, Dzhagser Plague breaks out resulting in
       reduced Zhodani populations, Zhodani trade and communications routes to
       Trailing severely disrupted
-1792  Talpaku capture Zhodani trader, gain jump drive
-1750  Zhodani task force overwhelmed by Talpaku
-1685  First Talpaku War begins when Zhodani occupy Talpaku world. Talpaku 
       retake world and invade Zhodani Consulate. Meichntid Ibl astonished, as
       they "only patrol 4-5 pc and hence had not contacted the Talpaku". 
       Attempts to make contact for an alliance spurned (since they look like 
       Zhodani to the Talpaku); so they mount an independent offensive to
       regain some lost worlds. Talpaku offensive turned back after initial
       success and ceasefire called.
-1680  Zhodani begin serious survey of Yiklerzdanzh. Meichntid Ibl contact 
       Talpaku and explain things; Talpaku distrustful but enter into an 
       alliance.
-1600  Izrats Kriezhlas Unity covers 20 worlds and active on that many more. 
       They have been told about the Meichntid Ibl and Talpaku but decide 
       discretion is the better part of valour (for now, anyway).
-1595  Talpaku execute Zhodani diplomat after psionic incident, Second Talpaku
       War begins. Meichntid Ibl join in.
-1594  Second Talpaku War ends. Establishment of DMZ between Zhodani and 
       Talpaku. Meichntid Ibl lose many worlds.
-1400  Dzhagser plague strikes Zhodani again from Vargr space
-1300  Talpaku execute several Zhodani over psionic incidents, several 
       skirmishes occur, but war averted
-1230  First Izrats Kriezhlas Unity "Talpaku Mission" fails
-1000  Zhodani Consulate reaches present size, Dzhagser plague effectively
       under  control, Izrats Khriehlas Unity becomes a formal Zhodani client
       state.

By the end of this period, relative peace exists. The Shadow War has petered
out, but tensions exist between the Zhodani and the Meichntid Ibl/Talpaku 
alliance. The Zhodani have totally lost interest in expansion and just want 
secure borders. The Meichntid Ibl is roughly its present size. The Talpaku and
Carillon will have met, somewhere after -1500.

UNEASY PEACE

-950   SUraak reach TL 1
-900   Talpaku xenophobia begins to ebb
-600   Zhodani Fourth Core Expedition
-399   First Sword World colony of Gram settled in Spinward Marches

Few border changes occurred in this period. The Meichntid Ibl/Talpaku alliance
has grown very strong.

SOLOMANI/IMPERIAL INFLUX

-390  Small number of Sword Worlder explorer colonists reach Yiklerzdanzh and
      settled Fordays Fortune
-300  Zhodani discover budding S'raak civilisation. Their homeworld is declared
      Forbidden.
-200  Zhodani begin closing down large scale relations with Izrats Kriezhlas 
      Unity
-120  Second Izrats Kriezhlas Unity "Talpaku Mission" succeeds; large scale 
      trade begins.
-50   Zhodani contact Imperials in the Spinward Marches
60    Imperial settlers colonise Mora in the Spinward Marches
75    Imperial settlers colonise Regina in the Spinward Marches
176   SUraak reach TL 2
350   Zhodani mount 6th Core Expedition (? or 300)
500   Zhodani military interest in Izrats Kriezhlas Unity increases, IISS
      begins Class 1 survey of Vanguard Reaches
561   More Solomani arrive in Yiklerzdanzh and settle in Rom's Loch (larger 
      numbers this time). Sword Worlder extremist sect establishes small 
      colonies on Forge & Hammer in subsector N.
589   First Frontier War begins
600   Zhodani reach TL 13, Jump 4 developed. Relay route to Izrats Kriezhlas 
      Unity from subsector H replaced by one from subsector E, to boost Zhodani
      influence in the region.
602   Meichntid Ibl contacts Imperium, Imperium not interested in alliance.
604   First Frontier War ends
609   Zhodani explorers make serious survey of Vanguard Reaches and contact 
      Murians there
613   Eslyat in Vanguard Reaches capture jump drive from Zhodani
615   Second Frontier War begins
620   Second Frontier War ends
626   Driantia Steblenzhtia, a Zhodani client state, created in Afachtiabr, 
      Vanguard Reaches and Yiklerzdanzh
750   Seventh Core Expedition
800   Imperial Psionic Suppressions begin
802   Imperial refugees begin to flee psionic suppressions with Zhodani 
      assistance
809   Imperial psionic refugees settled in Chinzhedniedoch subsector by Zhodani
826   Imperial Psionics Suppressions end
900   Allarton Corporation gathers good quality information on Vanguard Reaches
936   Duchy of Trelyn in Vanguard Reaches created by patent of Emperor Styryx
      at  Capital/Core
962   Joint Meichntid Ibl and Talpaku emmisary mission to Imperium destroyed en
      route secretly by Zhodani.
979   Third Frontier War
986   Third Frontier War ends
1000  Zhodani reach TL 14 (Jump-5)
1031  SUraak reach TL 4
1046  Ill-fated Class V Survey of Vanguard Reaches begun
1100  Talpaku reach TL 13 (Jump-4)

By the end of this period, there have been a number settlements by 
Solomani/Sword Worlders (e.g. the Salinaikin Concordance, Driantia Steblenzhtia
and Akigura Union).

THE MODERN PERIOD

1061  Class I survey of Yiklerzdanzh undertaken by IISS for the Second Survey.
      Consequent official contact with Third Imperium (though only fleeting).
1082  Fourth Frontier War
1084  Fourth Frontier War ends
1098  Zhodani rediscover SUraak but suppress news
1099  Talpaku and Meichntid Ibl hear rumours and also try to secretly recontact
      S'raak
1100  Zhodani, Talpaku & Meichntid Ibl all contact S'raak hoping to use them
      for  their own purposes, S'raak pretend to go along with all parties to
      gain technical assistance but secretly declare holy war against all
      offworlders
1102  S'raak begin breeding programme to create army for Holy War
1106  Wildly inaccurate Class V survey of Vanguard Reaches published
1107  Fifth Frontier War
1110  Fifth Frontier War ends
1116  Dulinor assasinates Emporer Strephon and his heirs
1120  Zhodani begin planning 8th Core Expedition; Zhodani resume interest in
      taking direct control of the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity; S'raak reach TL 6,
      begin nuclear weapons tests; Duchy of Trelyn releases new class V survey
      of Vanguard Reaches
1126  S'raak declare Khaar off limits to all foreigners
1130  Collapse of Imperial civilisation
1153  S'raak reach TL 8 and use imported jump drives to create jump capable
      Navy
1159  S'raak begin attacks on Zhodani Consulate, Meichntid Ibl and Talpaku
      Communality, attempting to play each against the others.
1160  SUraak War. SUraak carve out small interstellar state, Zhodani lose some
      unimportant worlds to Meichntid Ibl, Zhodani relay route to Izrats
      Kriezhlas Unity changed to again start in Chinzhedniedoch subsector
1181  S'raak begin explorations of Tsadra sector
1185  First S'raak colony established in Tsadra sector. Talpaku commence
      explorations into Tsadra sector to counter S'raak expansion
1191  Regency consulate established on Talpakuhome
1196  Regency consulate on Talpakuhome upgraded to embassy, consulates
      established on FordayUs Fortune and Izrats Kriezhlas Unity capital
1201  Dawn of the New Era

So here we are at the current date. Relations are only now beginning to settle
down after the SUraak War, and it will take a while before things settle down
totally (for instance, the full effects of the change in the Zhodani Relay
Route). Although full scale interstellar war seems unlikely at the moment,
border incidents and lower level conflicts still exist.





 The Izrats Kriezhlas Unity 

   
The Izrats Kriezhlas Unity
    by David Thornell (with Grant Sinclair)
    Date: 21 September 1995
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The following comes from the History of Draj Orshtiel (First House) on
   Anchli, as collected by Archivist Shtivats jir-Vretsdriezh. This
   special collection presents a history of the Vlazhdumecta Izrats
   Kriezhlas from before the first landing.
   
   Our race is the Vlazhdumecta. About 6000 years ago, our ancestors had
   a flourishing commercial empire in Afachtiabr sector. Over the years,
   their empire expanded beyond Afachtiabr and soon the ships of Draj
   Orshtiel arrived in Yiklerzdanzh, seeking new frontiers. They settled
   Anchli and the ships of other Houses followed and more systems were
   colonised.
   
   Tragically, our Afachtiabr civilisation fell, leaving us as the last
   remaining Vlazhdumecta state. We have broken with the past and we now
   call ourselves the Izrats Kriezhlas - the "People of the New
   Beginning".
   
  PHYSIOLOGY
  
   We of the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity are near pure Vlazhdumecta (see TTC
   8), though we now refer to our race as the Izrats Kriezhlas. There has
   been enough interbreeding with Zhodani to alleviate the worst of the
   biochemical problems, but we are still recognisably Vlazhdumecta.
   
  SOCIETY AND CULTURE
  
   Government: The central ruling body of the Izrats Kriezhlas is called
   the Izh Kriezhlal, a term sometimes used for the name of our state. It
   is comprised of an upper (House) council, and a lower (planetary)
   council. Each house has representatives in proportion to its size. The
   lower council, representing planetary holdings, currently has 216
   members. The upper council, representing each House as an entity, has
   44 members. This includes 2 representatives of the Zhodani Consulate,
   who have Great House status due to the amount of Zhodani investment
   that remains even now.
   
   Our state is generally known as the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity, or just
   "the Unity". Our symbol is a blue droplet of water containing stars.
   The water droplet is a reference to a basic teaching in philosophy;
   just as a droplet of water can hang on, seemingly defying gravity, so
   can the proper frame of mind allow a person (or a state) to endure and
   overcome any hardship.
   
   Design Techniques: To the Izrats Kriezhlas, form is as important as
   function, so manufactured items must be pleasing to the eye. Although
   the price is higher, our quality goods are able to compete well at the
   "high-end" of markets in any human state. Conversely, items from other
   states need to meet this standard to have success in our own markets.
   This has been a problem for the few attempts by companies of the
   Meichntid Ibl (a rival Yiklerzdanzh state) to establish trade links.
   
   Tattooing: A practice still common in the Izrats Kriezhlas, although
   seldom found in other descendants of the Vlazhdumecta. A person's
   occupation, ranking, and history are marked in small glyphs, usually
   located on the upper cheekbones, bridge of the nose, and forehead. The
   position, size and detailing of these glyphs all hold particular
   historic significance.
   
  HISTORY
  
   About 6000 years ago, our ancestors were contacted by the Zhodani.
   Already possessing a moderate tech level, they were able to use the
   secret of the jump drive obtained from the Zhodani to colonise much of
   Afachtiabr sector.
   
   At about the same time as the Zhodani were becoming concerned about
   the Vlazhdumecta, a multi-House effort established the first
   Vlazhdumecta colony in Yiklerzdanzh. The Anchli system was chosen,
   since it was a desirable world, near the centre of the area intended
   for the spinward spur of the Vlazhdumecta Colonisation Sphere. It was
   also a long way from the secession wars of the Meichntid Ibl.
   
   Other Houses started their own colonisation efforts, but House
   Orshtiel was left as controller of Anchli after several minor
   skirmishes. A number of other nearby worlds had just been settled when
   the Vlazhdumecta Colonisation Sphere began to collapse. When it was
   realised that the end was near, the last Vlazhdumecta in spin/rimward
   Afachtiabr with the capability to do so consolidated in the
   Yiklerzdanzh colony. By -4900, the link to the Yiklerzdanzh colonies
   had been long abandoned.
   
   Forced to cooperate to survive, the Yiklerzdanzh colonies chose the
   only model they knew for a successful interstellar state - the Zhodani
   Consulate. Massive changes in House power structures developed, with
   the attempted control of top levels in society.
   
   Even with the most desperate efforts, the colonies simply had not
   enough time to be able to continue independently. By -3500, most
   worlds had regressed to a weird combination of TL 3, with touches of
   homegrown TL 5-6 in specific areas, and the rare occurrence of
   ancient, unreliable TL 8-9. On worlds where Houses were mixed (most
   are single House worlds) they had settled in for the long term, with
   occasional sniping. Some Houses merged - some disappeared. Some
   records were kept of the past, but most were lost, and the records
   that did survive generally related to the time since settlement, or
   were thought to be of use for immediate survival needs.
   
   Fortunately, this was the nadir of the collapse. The populations of
   most worlds had been able to expand despite the falling technology,
   due to the favourable ecologies of the worlds selected for initial
   colonisation. Their economies stabilised and then began to expand.
   Innovation could and was supported, assisted by the knowledge that had
   been preserved in our libraries.
   
   Around -2700, Qrazhazhjal reachieved TL 9 and recontacted
   Itsplanzhikar and Anchli. It was decided that sundered Houses must be
   rejoined and a dozen systems were united by -2500.
   
   In -2400, a Zhodani survey ship arrived at Itsplanzhikar. There was
   some initial hostility because of old memories but our ancestors
   needed all the help they could get. The Zhodani were particularly
   pleased by the government structure that so closely resembled their
   own and the Unity was eventually convinced that true friendship was
   now possible. The society structure (i.e. highly structured, rigid
   society comprising various Houses with nobles at top and serfs at
   bottom) was very amenable to the Zhodani form.
   
   By -2280, the two states were very close. Zhodani investment had given
   a boost to the local economy that allowed full recovery from the fall
   and the Zhodani had gained a buffer state. To seal the arrangement,
   the Zhodani offered jump-2 and 3. With consent of both sides,
   immigration from the Consulate was encouraged, from all social strata.
   Psionics was used by all levels of society but was strongest (and most
   erratic) in the House nobility.
   
   Starting around -2000, the Houses institute breeding programs with
   Zhodani assistance. The aim was supposed to be to eradicate wildcard
   psi powers and to finalise stabilisation of Izrats Kriezhlan
   biochemistry. However, the Zhodani actually wanted to eradicate psi at
   lower levels and strengthen it at higher.
   
   In -1685, the first war started between the Zhodani and the Talpaku
   Communality (a Yiklerzdanzh non-human minor race) and some of our own
   forces went to Zhodani space to help with the defense. The Talpaku
   were left unaware of our existence, which was in our best interest,
   since our state was still not in a position to defend against a major
   invasion.
   
   By -1600, we had achieved homegrown TL 11 on several worlds. The Unity
   then spanned almost 20 systems, including some in Fulani sector.
   
   Around -1000, we became a formal Client State of the Zhodani
   Consulate. By -200, the relocation project was complete, with almost
   5% of IK population Zhodani (mostly in upper classes). The Zhodani
   believed that they had completed shaping the Unity and felt
   comfortable turning their political and military attention elsewhere.
   
   The Unity was left alone for many centuries, until the Zhodani
   military regained interest in the leadup to the First Frontier War.
   The Zhodani established a number of military and naval bases as a
   bastion to trailing and rimward. Many young people joined up to fight
   with the Zhodani in this and the later Frontier Wars. The Unity became
   inward looking during this time and actually contracted a little
   around 900.
   
   This more distant political relationship changed with the Rebellion.
   Freed of the need to watch the Imperial border so closely, the Zhodani
   again became interested in closer control of the Unity. This was seen
   as an advantage to both states, but proved ill-fated. Students began
   to agitate for independence and popular opinion changed as these
   students grew older.
   
   The final blows to Zhodani influence came in 1160 with the S'raak War
   (a widespread conflict within Yiklerzdanzh sector). Even political
   conservatives disliked the massive withdrawal of Consulate and local
   forces, leaving the Unity only lightly defended against possible
   Talpaku invasion (which, fortunately, never came). Public opinion was
   shaken further when many ships and lives were lost against the
   Meichntid Ibl. Finally, Zhodani prestige was shaken with the result of
   the war and the need to replace the old trade route.
   
   Now, we are an independent state, still with cultural ties to the
   Zhodani, but no longer wishing to be controlled by it. We are much
   happier with the situation and have begun to relax more and enjoy
   life, though some say that this has resulted in some stagnation of
   society. Recently, there has been a renewal of interest in our
   origins, and some have travelled to Afachtiabr to contact such
   Vlazhdumecta who remain. Tragically, it seems that even more of our
   culture has been lost in Afachtiabr than in our own settlements.
   
  RELATIONS WITH OTHER YIKLERZDANZH STATES
  
     * Zhodani Consulate: The Unity has always been close to the Zhodani,
       and were a formal client state for over two millenia. The Zhodani
       are still our closest ally, with the replacement major trade route
       now established and with naval bases still jointly operated with
       them. The bases with Zhodani codes and symbols are jointly
       operated; the remainder are smaller and operated solely by the
       Unity.
     * Talpaku Communality: The first trade/diplomatic mission to the
       Talpaku Communality (in -1230) was a disaster, but the second
       mission (in -120) fared much better. Relations have never been
       better than cordial, since the Talpaku have always been our own
       and Zhodani enemies, but it is possible that relations will now
       improve.
     * Carillon Harmonies: The Unity and the Carillon have had fairly
       warm relations, particularly as a result of the Carillon
       assistance that led to the Vlazhdumecta anagathic.
     * Meichntid Ibl: The Meichntid Ibl displays an arrogant, superior
       attitude to the Unity and our people, who the Meichntid Ibl
       wrongly see as being a lower order "easybeat" race of humaniti. An
       example is the recent series of popular Meichntid Ibl holographic
       movies, featuring a villainous Zhodani with a bumbling Izrats
       Kriezhlas sidekick. If this were not bad enough, the sidekick was
       named Orshtiel, a great insult to the name of our founding House.
       Of course, their attitude has also been coloured by the fact that
       the Unity has generally been pro-Zhodani, the Meichntid Ibl's
       great enemy.
     * The Regency: A small Regency consulate was established in the
       Unity in 1196. Discussions with the Regency diplomats continue,
       but no policy on relations has yet been formalised. The people of
       the Unity are a little tentative, since volunteers joined several
       of the Frontier Wars against the Imperium, fighting under the
       Zhodani flag.
   
  IZRATS KRIEZHLAS CHARACTERS
  
   Character Generation: Izrats Kriezhlan characters are generated as if
   seven-eighths or better Vlazhdumecta blood (see Vlazhdumecta article
   in TTC 8).
   
   Anagathics: Normal anagathics have little effect on the people of the
   Unity, due to biochemical differences.
   
   Fortunately, assistance from the nearby Carillon Harmonies resulted in
   the development of a modified version several centuries ago. These
   have the normal effects according to the game system in use, except
   for TNE, where a 2 is added to the 2d6 roll for the Anagathics Side
   Effects table (i.e. side effects are more severe when they do
   occur).These special anagathics are at normal prices, but can only be
   purchased from Unity or Carillon worlds.
   




 The Meichntid Ibl 

The Meichntid Ibl as at 1201
    Original Concept: Angus Foster & Steven Fernandez
    Updated By: Gustav Ness, David Schneider & Grant Sinclair
    Date: 29th March 1995 (Finished)
    
     _________________________________________________________________
   
Contents

    1. Physiology
    2. History
    3. Society
    4. Psychology
    5. Government
    6. Law
    7. Military
    8. Roleplaying Meichntid Ibl Citizens
    9. Visiting Meichntid Ibl
   10. Foreign Relations
       
Physiology

   The overwhelming majority of Meichntid Ibl citizens are biological
   Zhodani. Less than one percent of the human gene pool is from humans
   of other origins, primarily Vlazhdumecta.
   
   There is also a sizeable minority of Droyne and Chirpers who are
   citizens of Meichntid Ibl. The Droyne are currently undertaking a
   project to "uplift" the chirpers into being fully viable Droyne.
   
History

   The origins of the Meichntid Ibl go far back into Zhodani history. In
   the early period of Zhodani interstellar expansion, many non psionic
   members of the Zhodani nobility became tired of the increasing power
   and prejudice of the psionic nobility. Many of these nobles felt more
   comfortable in the forefront of the expansion, since they enjoyed
   overcoming the technical problems involved and also enjoyed the
   greater autonomy found on worlds more distant from the Consulate core
   worlds. The initial group of nobles happened to choose rimward and
   many others chose to follow, for no reason other than friendship and
   common interests. The Consulate leadership were happy to see them go,
   since it left them firmly in control of the reins of power.
   
   When the colonisation push finally wound down a few centuries later,
   most of the coreward half of Yiklerzdanzh had been settled and claimed
   by the Zhodani Consulate. The majority of worlds in subsectors B, C, F
   and G were controlled by technological nobles and they formed the most
   important scientific and industrial region outside the core worlds of
   the Consulate. This system worked quite well for quite a long time and
   most people were content. Tavrchedl' officers occasionally surveyed
   the nobility and found no cause for concern, since there was genuinely
   no intention of secession or rebellion.
   
   Toward the end of the colonisation push (around -5100 Imperial), the
   Zhodani had contacted the Vlazhdumecta minor human race in
   neighbouring Far Frontiers sector. The Vlazhdumecta absorbed much
   culture from the Zhodani and rapidly spread out to colonise most of
   Far Frontiers sector, thanks to the secret of the jump drive.
   
   The Consulate government became alarmed at the rate of Vlazhdumecta
   expansion and decided to eliminate this potential threat to Consulate
   security. In a series of political, economic and finally military
   moves, the Consulate "absorbed" the Vlazhdumecta core worlds in Far
   Frontiers sector. The Zhodani had never before needed to attack an
   interstellar state and found their then defensive oriented Navy to be
   inadequate. To support the war effort, it commandeered shipping and
   other resources to support the war effort, with little compensation to
   the "owning" nobility. The industrially strong Yiklerzdanzh worlds
   were therefore affected disproportionately highly, resulting in some
   ill will towards the government.
   
   Soon after the absorption of the Vlazhdumecta core worlds, the
   Vlazhdumecta mercantile empire began to collapse. Within a few
   centuries, the Vlazhdumecta Colonisation Sphere had completely
   collapsed, with many unfortunate colonies reverting to either
   barbarism or oblivion.
   
   News of the attack on the Vlazhdumecta homeworlds spread rapidly
   throughout the Consulate. The reaction of the Zhodani people in
   Yiklerzdanzh was one of horror and outrage, leading to widespread
   rioting and civil disturbance on many Yiklerzdanzh worlds.
   Disillusionment and cynicism towards the Consulate government within
   Yiklerzdanzh began to spread.
   
   The outrage and horror was not restricted to the general population.
   The non psionic and technological nobility in Yiklerzdanzh was also
   deeply disturbed by what had been done to the Vlazhdumecta. The idea
   that the Consulate government would give the Vlazhdumecta the jump
   drive and then that same government would destroy their civilisation
   and leave literally billions to their fate did not inspire confidence.
   Many Yiklerzdanzh nobles protested the harsh treatment meted out to
   the Vlazhdumecta, but such protest fell upon deaf ears.
   
   During this time, the Consulate enacted several reforms to their
   interstellar taxation system which were intended to improve the
   revenue gathering process and to take into account the ability of
   individual systems to contribute to the Consulate Coffers. Owing to
   the vagueness of some parts of the legislation, the tendency of the
   new laws to penalise industrial systems and some poor interpretations
   of the new laws by assessors on the spot; the Zhodani systems
   throughout Yiklerzdanzh sector (as well as many other colonial
   regions) found themselves paying dramatically increased levels of tax
   to the Consular government. Needless to say this did not endear the
   Consulates leadership to those paying the new taxes.
   
   At about this time, a visionary philosophical thinker Anidrep
   Dienzhishinch, on Zhdant, released a manuscript detailing her advanced
   philosophical work. This work by the unpsionically gifted visionary
   became rather popular with the non psionic nobility of Yiklerzdanzh,
   and was consequently widely disseminated throughout the Zhodani worlds
   in the sector. The Yiklerzdanzh nobility were so impressed by
   Anidrep's manuscript and her subsequent philosophical work that an
   invitation was extended by the Yiklerzdanzh nobility for Anidrep to
   move to the sector, with promises of financial support and
   dissemination of her output.
   
   However, instead of a reply from Anidrep, the Yiklerzdanzh nobility
   received news that Anidrep had been arrested by the Tavrchedl'. The
   Yiklerzdanzh nobles were shocked and amongst the protests concerning
   the fate of the Vlazhdumecta, and unfair taxation, there began to
   appear protests calling for the immediate release of Anidrep. There
   was widespread shock throughout Yiklerzdanzh when a brief message came
   from Zhdant stating that Anidrep had died in an "accident" while in
   Tavrchedl' custody, the exact circumstances of the accident were
   unclear and not mentioned in any subsequent message.
   
   The result of this brief message was far reaching. The death of
   Anidrep dramatically increased the levels of disillusionment and
   cynicism towards the Consulate government, and the numbers of anti
   Consulate protest and riots increased substantially. Once more the
   Yiklerzdanzh nobility sent protests to Zhdant, this time hinting that
   if the Consulate government did not pay closer attention to individual
   rights, they would have to take Steps to protect the interests of the
   population in their charge.
   
   The response of the Consulate government on Zhdant was as sudden as it
   was unexpected. The Consulate government removed large numbers of the
   popular non psionic and technological nobles in Yiklerzdanzh and
   replaced them with psionic noble appointees. It also gave orders for
   these nobles to end the pro Vlazhdumecta and Anidrep civil
   disturbances using whatever means necessary.
   
   
   The result of these orders was unprecedented. The Yiklerzdanzh portion
   of the Consulate seceded from the Zhodani Consulate declaring itself
   to be the Meichntid Ibl, or Thinkers Haven. The new state ended
   economic ties with the Consulate and, to show they were serious, moved
   warships and troops up to the new border. They also declared a
   constitutional convention to create a constitution and a new system of
   government and their capital world was renamed Dienzhishinch, in
   honour of Anidrep Dienzhishinch.
   
   The Consulate government was shocked beyond belief at the steps taken
   by the Yiklerzdanzh nobles. Consulate forces were deployed along the
   new Meichntid Ibl/Consulate border, but neither side seemed
   particularly eager to attack the other. The idea of Zhodani people
   fighting Zhodani people was rather unsettling for all concerned.
   
   The Consulate then attempted a number of political and diplomatic
   solutions to bring the Yiklerzdanzh colonies back into the Consulate
   fold, but the Meichntid Ibl would have nothing to do with it. After a
   few months of fruitless diplomatic negotiations, the Consulate decided
   to leave the matter until it had finished with the absorption of the
   Vlazhdumecta core worlds. At this time it was also decided to try and
   infiltrate agents across the Meichntid Ibl border with a view towards
   influencing the civil population towards rejoining the Consulate of
   its own accord. Thus began a long series of covert actions,
   skirmishes, and border clashes between the two states which have since
   been dubbed "The Shadow Wars". Over the millennia, the Haven slowly
   fell back, growing only through rimward expansion. By the time it had
   reached about two subsectors in size, the Consulate had grown to the
   point where the Haven was no longer felt as the threat it once had
   been. The Haven was certainly not interested in declaring war on the
   Consulate, so borders remained stable for some time.
   
   In -1792, a then xenophobic alien race was encountered in
   Yiklerzdanzh subsector I by a Zhodani merchant. The race (later named
   "the Talpaku" by Imperial explorers) attacked and captured the ship,
   resulting in the acquisition of the jump drive (see HIWG Doc YIKL01).
   The first war between the Talpaku and the Zhodani began in -1685,
   which was a great surprise to the Haven, since they had no idea that
   the Talpaku existed. Although not involved in the war initially, the
   close proximity of the war and the jumpy nature of the Zhodani leaders
   at the time led to border incidents and then strikes against systems.
   At the end of the war, the Haven was able to recover a few of their
   most recently lost worlds. Despite their common enemy, contact with
   the Talpaku was not easy and was not until -1680 that an alliance with
   the Talpaku was signed.
   
   A second war between the Talpaku and the Zhodani again drew the Haven
   into conflict with the Zhodani. Unfortunately, the Talpaku did not
   inform the Haven of their intentions until after the war began, so the
   Haven again lost some worlds to the Zhodani.
   
   However, this war (ending in -1594) marked the end of large scale
   conflict with the Zhodani. The Haven concentrated on developing its
   own economy and began trade with the Talpaku and (later) even the
   Zhodani Consulate and other nearby states. The difficulty of
   reabsorbing those worlds which had been taken by the Zhodani showed
   that conquest of other cultures was to be avoided and so they
   concentrated on building up their own worlds. This attitude prevails
   to the present day, so neighbouring worlds find the Meichntid Ibl to
   be a safe, if aloof, neighbour.
   
   All of this changed in 1160 with the outbreak of the 
   
Society

   Meichntid Ibl society is harsh. When originally founded, the great
   goal of the founders was to create a "philosophical society" based
   upon the teachings of their great spiritual leader Anidrep
   Dienzhishinch. Over the millennia since, things have gone a little
   awry - or at least so feel many non Meichntid Ibl observers.
   
   One of the major aspects of the original Anidrep philosophy was the
   importance for the individual to strive to be as successful and
   productive a member of society as possible.
   
   Over time this fairly mild statement has taken on a massive amount of
   importance to the people of the Meichntid Ibl, indeed they pretty much
   structured their entire society around it. In M.I. society nothing is
   more important than success, hence M.I. society is fiercely
   competitive. Also status symbols and the approval of ones peers are
   extremely important to the M.I. people.
   
   Not surprisingly Meichntid Ibl society is capitalistic, indeed many
   would say it is capitalism without conscience. At the age of 18 every
   M.I. citizen receives 600 shares in the economy. These shares cannot
   be sold or exchanged, and the dividend paid from them is enough to
   provide a subsistence level existence. This share system provides a
   safety net for the people of the Meichntid Ibl - it also allows the
   successful Meichntid Ibl citizen to have a clear conscience. This is
   because the Anidrep philosophy also states that all sophonts have a
   right to the basics of life.
   
   The concept of success above all else pervades all levels of M.I.
   society, it fills their entertainment and literature. Those who, for
   whatever reason, are unable to meet the massive demands of M.I.
   society fill what is known as "The Underclass".
   
   The underclass makes up a sizeable proportion of the M.I. population.
   These unfortunates are the cynical or apathetic dregs who were unable
   to make it in the cut throat world of M.I. society. As might be
   expected, the M.I. government has little sympathy for these
   individuals; in fact, some call them the skeleton in the Meichntid Ibl
   closet. These people are settled in special "estates", well away from
   the main residential districts. Every home in these estates is
   equipped with a Holovision set, provided free of charge by the
   government. In fact, they are mandatory in the estates and cannot be
   turned off (at least, not legally...).
   
   The average successful M.I. citizen typically works for one of the
   many corporations which dominate the Meichntid Ibl economy. These
   corporations demand a great deal of loyalty from their employees, and
   people seen to be loyal and efficient by company management can expect
   lucrative bonuses, fringe benefits, or other perks provided by the
   company. Employees who are not seen as being efficient enough, or
   dedicated enough to the company miss out on many or all of these
   perks. Indeed, corporations often withhold a particular perk from an
   employee as a quiet warning that they should improve their
   performance. Needless to say office gossip tends to be about who is
   getting what, and who isn't getting what.
   
Psychology

   Psionics: To the Meichntid Ibl, psionics is a perfectly natural
   ability. Their view is that some people have the ability and some
   people don't, just like any other ability. The Meichntid Ibl reject
   outright the idea that mere possession of psionic abilities should
   entitle someone to rule.
   
   According to the Anidrep philosophy, interfering with someone's mind
   using psionics is abhorrent. The Anidrep phrase, "if you alter my
   mind, you alter who I am", is taken very seriously by the Meichntid
   Ibl people. Anyone convicted of tampering with another sophont's mind
   using psionics can expect the death penalty.
   
   Use of psionics during business transactions is illegal. Most non
   psionic traders utilise psi shield helmets during business
   transactions. Indeed, use of psi shield helmets is wide spread
   throughout Meichntid Ibl, if only to protect against Zhodani spies.
   
   Success Drive: The average M.I. citizen is under enormous pressure to
   succeed from the day that they are born, to the day they die. This
   pressure comes in many different ways, from media content to peer
   group pressure. As long as a M.I. citizen continues to appear a
   success, friends and prestige are theirs. However, as soon as things
   go bad the person is very much on their own - because hanging around
   with a failure is bad for your own success.
   
   This tends to make friendships in M.I. society very shallow. It also
   places a great deal of guilt upon those unable to keep up with the
   pace of M.I. society. These failures, who typically make up the under
   class, are taught to see themselves as being at fault, rather than the
   system. This attitude on the part of members of the under class does
   much to perpetuate the system and stifle attempts at reform.
   
   Education: The M.I. believe that education is a right, not a privilege
   - up to a certain point. Education is free and of a good standard up
   to High School level, with a widespread curriculum that includes
   teaching of basic Anidrep philosophy and social skills useful in a
   workplace (e.g. "how to make business contacts").
   
   Higher Education must be paid for, and the fees are not small. This is
   fine for the wealthy but difficult for everyone else. Fortunately for
   those with talent but not money, scholarships are available.
   Corporations will pay for Higher Education in exchange for a
   commitment to work for that corporation for a fixed number of years,
   after completing their award.
   
   Capitalism: Virtually all aspects of M.I. life are related in some way
   to the capitalistic ideal, though taken to an extreme that disturbs
   many observers. For example, there are very few charitable
   organisations active within the bounds of the M.I., and the few that
   do exist receive no government support of any kind. The general
   attitude is that if people have failed to provide for their future
   then they deserve what they get. Apart from which everyone has the
   right to use their subsistence shares to exist - even if it is a
   burden on the economy and therefore on the responsible part of the
   population.
   
   Suicide: Suicide is widespread throughout Meichntid Ibl. Indeed many
   outside observers have severely criticised the M.I. as simply throwing
   people away after using them up. The view of the M.I. people is,
   however, completely different. The M.I. see suicide as an appropriate
   course of action for someone who has little left to offer society. The
   general view is why should someone who has failed linger around
   wasting resources and being a burden upon the economy? By committing
   suicide, the person ends the shame they are carrying and saves friends
   and family the untold numbers of credits that would have been used to
   support them.
   
Government

   The Meichntid Ibl is a democracy, where each citizen has one vote.
   Each citizen may retain that vote or sell it, for a given election.
   All sales of votes are carefully monitored by the Election Commission,
   an independent government agency. The Corporations wield a great deal
   of power, in Meichntid Ibl society, and it is typically the
   corporations who buy votes. Not surprisingly, it is typically the
   underclass who sell their votes.
   
   The Meichntid Ibl is essentially a massive military-industrial
   complex. Although the government is supposed to be an independent
   elected body reflecting the needs and wishes of the Meichntid Ibl
   people, such is no longer the case. In practice the government spends
   much of it's time looking after the interests of various corporate
   groups, arbitrating disputes between corporations, and attempting to
   make sure that no one corporation becomes powerful enough to threaten
   the balance of power.
   
   In order to get elected, M.I. politicians require huge amounts of
   money to finance the massive election campaigns required by Meichntid
   Ibl society. Very few politicians are able to provide these funds
   themselves, so a system has evolved where politicians will approach a
   corporation for sponsorship, in return for which they will take an
   interest in matters of concern to that corporation.
   
   This has led to a complex situation in which Meichntid Ibl politicians
   represent, and are accountable to, the political party to which they
   belong, the people who elected them, and the corporation who sponsored
   them. Many corporations try to resolve one of these problems buy
   buying as many votes in the politician's District as possible.
   However, the average M.I. politician still has to deal with various
   special interest lobby groups reflecting citizen concerns, military
   and diplomatic concerns and corporate concerns. Most corporations are
   more than happy to try and "poach" politicians sponsored by rival
   corporations.
   
   Individual worlds are allowed to use a variant of the basic electoral
   system, as long as it does not infringe upon the citizens
   constitutional right to have one vote, or otherwise conflict with the
   Federal constitution. One other important aspect of Meichntid Ibl
   election campaigns is that there is no limit to the amount of
   advertising that a candidate may use. Politicians are elected to the
   world legislature. These legislatures are responsible for appointing a
   set number of representatives to the Federal legislature. These
   federal representatives are not elected by the people, but rather are
   responsible to the world legislature which appointed them.
   
   There is an independent judiciary known as The Questioning Eye. The
   role of the Questioning Eye is primarily to monitor government
   activities, in order to make sure that they are being conducted in an
   efficient and proper manner. The questioning eye has a wide range of
   powers and is also responsible for much of the M.I.s intelligence
   activities.
   
   Individual worlds are not permitted to have independent military
   forces of any type. However, police and law enforcement activities are
   not considered military and are therefore under world government
   control. There are sometimes disputes concerning paramilitary arms of
   these agencies.
   
   The Federal government has an annual military budget of trillions of
   credits. At any given time there are at least half a dozen new
   military ships under construction. Outside military observers have
   described the top ten priorities of the Federal Governments as being
   "1 to 9 Stop the Zhodani Consulate!!!" and 10 "Oh yeah, stop the
   S'raak".
   
Law

   Meichntid Ibl has two areas of law, local (world) law and Federal law.
   The powers and authority of each type of law is strictly determined
   under the Meichntid Ibl Constitution. By and large though, the M.I.
   constitution gives the federal government a great deal of power.
   
   The federal government is responsible for the running of all starports
   in Meichntid Ibl. In practice, though, this means that the Federal
   Starports Authority sets up a list of rules and guide-lines by which
   all starports must be run, and then contracts the starports out to be
   run by various corporations.
   
   Meichntid Ibl criminal law is very harsh, particularly for repeat
   offenders. Initial or minor crimes tend to attract fines as penalties
   rather than loss of liberty through imprisonment. With the more
   serious minor crimes the more an offender is convicted of a particular
   crime, the steeper the fine. An offender's family is expected to help
   the offender to pay their fine if the offender is unable to. If the
   offenders family is unable or unwilling to do so, they may legally
   disown the offender for a token fee. This frees them from any
   financial obligation of the offender.
   
   For more serious crimes and offenders unable to pay their fines, the
   offender is given four options:
   
    1. Indentured labour.
    2. Volunteering for testing duty.
    3. Joining the Border Patrol.
    4. Volunteering for Environmental cleanup duty.
       
   Indentured Labour: The offender becomes a ward of a corporation and
   has to work for a token wage for a period of time determined by the
   courts. This sentence is very, very humiliating for the average
   Meichntid Ibl citizen (the only people lower on the M.I. social scale
   are the unemployed). This form of punishment is monitored by the
   Federal Indentureship Authority (F.I.A.). This Federal body
   distributes convicts to particular tasks in particular corporations on
   the basis of the severity of the crime. The corporations pay the FIA a
   fee for the use of the convict labour and may also purchase the right
   to choose convicts, rather than accept whoever the FIA assigns them.
   
   Testing Duty: The offender undertakes to participate in the
   development of a new product. The task may range from testing a new
   drug to trying out combat armour under field conditions (i.e. against
   live ammunition). This type of penalty is very hazardous.
   
   Border Patrol: The offender volunteers for a one year tour of duty
   with the Border Patrol. The convict goes through a basic training
   course and then is deployed on border worlds (both within and without
   the M.I. borders) upon which guerilla warfare is still being conducted
   with S'raak irregular troops (they are called irregular because the
   S'raak Empire doesn't admit that they are part of its forces).
   Convicts are deployed in special penal units which often find
   themselves trying out new types of equipment, or with jobs that the
   regular military units don't want (e.g. disarming land mines).
   
   Volunteering for the Border Patrol is dangerous, but the pay is better
   than in the other options. There is also the prestige of having served
   the Nation and the respect of ones peers. At the end of the your of
   duty the convict is given the options of joining the regular M.I.
   military as a veteran or accepting an honourable discharge. Both
   options leave the convict with a clean record.
   
   The Border Patrol option is a popular one amongst offenders, even
   though Penal Units tend to experience higher casualty rates then
   regular units. It is not uncommon to find 40 year old accountants and
   similar people serving in the penal units.
   
   Environmental Cleanup Duty: Many areas of Haven worlds are badly
   polluted, due to corporations using their political influence to cut
   costs. Funds are not available for the expensive protection that is
   needed, so many convicts volunteering for this duty later develop
   health problems. Some convicts are attacked by the groups who choose
   to live in these areas (to escape the law or society in general). Some
   underclass people survive by scrounging in these areas, so there is
   some pressure on the government to end this option. However, the
   influence of these people is much less than that of even those few
   wealthy who favour environmental causes.
   
   For Capital crimes, such as treason and premeditated murder, there is
   only one penalty if convicted - Death. This is largely due to the
   Anidrep philosophy which is very empathatic against interfering with
   the mind of an individual. The Meichntid Ibl view is that if they
   cannot reform the person then they will remove them from society
   permanently.
   
   The standard method of execution is anaesthetising the condemned and
   then removing their brain. Upon brain death the body is carefully
   disassembled and the organs, skin, et cetera are stored away in the
   organ banks. It is felt that this method of execution allows the
   convict to make a final contribution to society via their body parts
   for transplant purposes, and gives young M.I. doctors valuable
   experience. The method has brought criticism from sophont rights
   groups who point out that the M.I. tech level is sufficient on most
   M.I. worlds to permit cloning of new body parts.
   
   The method remains extremely popular within the Meichntid Ibl though,
   as convict body parts are provided at minimal charge to underclasser
   transplant patients. Also a large number of convict body parts are
   exported to low tech worlds surrounding the M.I. for a good profit.
   The Akigura Union is a major customer of the M.I. convict organ trade.
   
   Voluntary donation of organs and other body parts is also a common way
   for criminals to pay their fines for lesser crimes. For instance,
   someone convicted of theft of goods of a particular value may choose
   to sell a kidney or an eye to repay the aggrieved.
   
Military

   All military forces of the Meichntid Ibl are under the direct control
   of the Meichntid Ibl Federal Government. The M.I. military system and
   philosophy is very much a reflection of M.I. society.
   
   Organisation
   
   The military is divided into four main branches:
   
   Central Command and Control Branch: is responsible for all Strategic
   planning for the Meichntid Ibl military. There is a supreme CCC group
   which plans for the entire M.I. and has supreme command. Next, there
   is a CCC group for every system of the M.I.. Next, there is a CCC
   group for each inhabited world within the Meichntid Ibl, and finally
   there is a CCC group in charge of every major fleet of task force.
   
   The CCC branch is responsible for logistics and training of the M.I.
   military machine. It is also the CCC branch which is responsible for
   requesting funds and equipment from the Federal Government. The CCC is
   responsible for informing the M.I. Federal Government of the current
   overall military situation and what types of equipment the military
   requires.
   
   Navy: is responsible for all military ships and installations in
   space. The Navy is responsible for all system defence forces in space.
   In short, if it's in space it comes under Naval control. The Navy also
   has control of the Marines subbranch. The Marines provide ships troops
   for the Navy and ground troops for naval forces when Army ground
   troops are not available. For the main part though, marines are only
   used as ships troops or for hit and run raids.Special Operations
   Branch: consists of specialist units such as commandoes, medical,
   intelligence, Sappers, and Military Police. Special Operations branch
   also controls the penal units of the Border Patrol.Army: consists of
   only line units such as Powered Infantry, Lift Infantry, Armoured
   Units and Line Infantry. The Army also consists of two subbranches of
   Wet Navy and Air Force (non space capable).
   
   Troop Types and Deployment
    
   All four main branches may be divided into two troop types, green and
   elite. Elite troops are highly trained, well motivated and well
   equipped troops with the latest technology. Green troops have much
   less training, adequate motivation and adequate equipment. Green
   troops tend to be issued with old or low tech equipment.
   
   Of the four branches CCC has about 60% elite/40% green, The Navy 65%
   elite/35% green, and all of the small Marines subbranch is elite.
   Special Operations, the smallest branch, has 70% elite/30% green. The
   Army, which is the largest branch, has 40% elite/60% green. This is
   fairly constant in the two subbranches as well.
   
   The majority of the elite M.I. military is deployed along the
   M.I./Zhodani border, where a number of skirmishes with Consulate
   forces have occurred in recent years. A handful of elite units are
   deployed against the S'raak as well as all of the Border Patrol.
   
   There is a fair degree of cooperation between the M.I. military and
   M.I. corporations who supply them. Meichntid Ibl corporations are
   always offering the military all sorts of new weapons and equipment.
   
Roleplaying Meichntid Ibl Citizens

   When roleplaying citizens of the M.I. it is vital to bear their
   success drive in the forefront of your mind. M.I. citizens are
   desperate not to be perceived as lacking in any way. M.I. citizens
   have a habit of talking down to everyone, particularly non M.I.
   citizens. M.I. people are also very loud and intimidating. Many non
   M.I. people find M.I. citizens to be irritating or obnoxious.
   
   M.I. citizens typically try to seize the initiative whenever possible.
   When in groups with non M.I. people, the M.I. character will usually
   attempt to take charge immediately, becoming de facto leader and
   therefore successful. If the M.I. character is unable to take charge
   they will attempt to insinuate themselves as high up the social ladder
   as possible.
   
   M.I. characters are competitive to an extreme. Their desire to succeed
   makes them desperate to outdo all others in all things, they then brag
   about how well they have done or are doing. M.I. characters do not
   like to be reminded of personal failures, particularly in public.
   
   M.I. characters have many status symbols, their clothes must be
   dramatic and have flair, their handcomputer must have more functions
   than yours and so on and so forth ad nauseam. M.I. characters outside
   of M.I. territory have an unfortunate habit of rubbing people the
   wrong way and getting themselves (and those with them) into all sorts
   of unpleasant situations.
   
Visiting Meichntid Ibl

   The cost of living is found to be rather high by people visiting the
   Meichntid Ibl, since visitors are not exempt from the universal
   consumption tax (20%) that is levied in exchange for a single, low
   income tax rate. Traders may find themselves having to pay a Meichntid
   Ibl consumption tax to buy goods, then having to pay an income tax to
   their own government on the profits made from such a purchase.
   Starship fees are higher for ships of non-M.I. registry and there are
   tariffs for importing non-M.I. manufactured goods. Importing raw
   materials draws no tariff, nor does exporting M.I. manufactured goods.
   
   People visiting M.I. worlds will be overwhelmed by the level of
   advertising. Advertising of all types will be seen, as there are no
   restrictions on advertising with the exception that subliminal
   advertising is illegal as it conflicts with the Anidrep philosophy.
   People asking questions about the underclassers will be avoided by
   M.I. citizens and nothing short of a hefty bribe will get an M.I.
   citizen to tell foreigners about the underclassers. Players will have
   to go far to find underclassers, as their estates are well away from
   areas likely to be visited by foreign tourists.
   
   Visitors will also notice the huge amount of anti Consulate
   information to which the M.I. people are subjected on a daily basis.
   Any character who is a Consulate citizen or who is of obvious
   Consulate cultural heritage will find that it is illegal for them to
   leave the bounds of the starport.
   
Foreign Relations
   
   Zhodani Consulate:
          Relations with the Consulate are as strained as ever. While the
          two states aren't actually at war, there are incidents every
          year. Surprisingly there is trade between the two states -
          though it is heavily regulated by both governments.
          
   Izrats Kriezhlas Unity:
          Relations with the Izrats Kriezhlas Vlazhdumecta are cool to
          say the best. The early goodwill towards the Vlazhdumecta which
          helped set the stage for M.I. secession are long gone. The
          Unity collapsed not long after the fall of the original
          Vlazhdumecta Empire. When they finally reemerged as a
          starfaring state they received Consulate aid and became a
          Zhodani client state, an arrangement which only ended in recent
          history.
          
          The Meichntid Ibl see the Unity as being tainted by the Zhodani
          and their media has portrayed the Unity Vlazhdumecta as
          bumbling Consulate lackeys for centuries. The Unity also
          launched a diversionary attack on the M.I. during the S'raak
          War in aid of Zhodani forces. This was seen as a good way to
          show the M.I. how the Unity felt about them.
          
          Relations are unlikely to improve in the foreseeable future.
          
   Glenauran Signatorate:
          The Meichntid Ibl does not recognise the Signatorate. The
          Signatorate doesn't care if the M.I. recognises them or not.
          
   S'raak Empire:
          Relations with the S'raak Empire are strained. The Meichntid
          Ibl (as well as other states) has accused them of issuing
          letters of marque and of being behind so called independent
          S'raak groups fighting guerilla wars on several worlds. The
          S'raak have denied these charges.
          
   Talpaku Communality:
          The Communality has an alliance with the Meichntid Ibl against
          the Zhodani Consulate. Apart from this, both states have little
          to do with one another. Recently Talpaku diplomats have been
          warning the M.I. about the S'raak and urging a united stand
          against them. This has received some support from the M.I. but
          no combined action has yet been agreed upon.
          
   Salinaikin Concordance:
          The Concordance is neutral towards the Meichntid Ibl and the
          Zhodani Consulate. The Concordance is much more concerned with
          internal affairs and deteriorating relations with the Akigura
          Union.
          
   Akigura Union:
          Relations between the two states are good considering that one
          is a nominal democracy and the other a full fledged police
          state. The Union leaders purchase Convict body parts from the
          M.I. as well as some high tech goods. The Meichntid Ibl imports
          large numbers of psi shield helmets from the Union.
          
   Carillon Harmonies:
          The Carillon and the Meichntid Ibl do not get along well with
          one another. The two states are rivals over trade and influence
          in Stellar Chorus Subsector. Also the Meichntid Ibl fear and
          distrust Carillon biotechnology, particularly their success at
          cracking various DNA codes. The fact that the Harmony's major
          friend, Forday's Fortune, does not like the M.I., does not help
          matters.
          
   Forday's Fortune:
          The Fordayites do not like the M.I.. They do not like their
          disregard for the lives of their citizens, they do not like
          their stupid philosophy and they do not like their competition
          in high tech manufactured goods. The Meichntid Ibl don't think
          much of Forday's Fortune much either, so relations are not
          warm.
          
   Regency:
          The Meichntid Ibl visits Talpakuhome to discuss matters with
          the Regency Ambassador directly, since it will not deal with a
          lesser diplomat. Relations are not close, since the M.I. is
          notoriously distrustful of outsiders.
          




 Contact: S'raak 

   
Contact: S'raak
    by Paul O'Grady and David Schneider
    Date: 22nd October 1994
    
     _________________________________________________________________
   
General Note

   Since the emergence of the S'raak as a starfaring race, their extreme
   hostility has prevented detailed research on either the S'raak or
   their homeworld (Khaar 0221). Planetary data is cited from surveys
   conducted during rediscovery of the S'raak in 1098-1099. Society and
   physiological notes have been compiled from various diplomatic and
   trading personnel who have had contact with the S'raak. Note that due
   to the inability to conduct independent confirmation and the age of
   some of the information, some data (such as population and technical
   codes) is suspect and may be unreliable.
   
Physiology

   S'raak are upright, bipedal organisms averaging a modest 1.5 metres in
   height. They are covered with thick leathery scales in mottled brown
   and yellow colours, although exact patterns appears to be dependant on
   clan heritage. They are notable for their sulfur based metabolism
   resulting from their evolution on a world with an atmosphere highly
   tainted with sulphur. Sulphur dioxide is the primary respiratory
   compound, acting in the same role as oxygen does in humans, and their
   body chemistry and metabolism is comprised in sulphur saturated
   compounds. S'raak DNA is configured in a left handed helix rather than
   the right handed one as in humans, and their DNA repair mechanism is
   so efficient that they are far more resistant to normally lethal doses
   of radiation in all forms.
   
   S'raak are hermaphroditic. Foetal development occurs over a period of
   five months, and young are born live through an abdominal urinogenital
   opening. Physical maturation is complete at 6-7 standard years, with
   mental and intellectual maturation some 4-5 years later. This leaves
   an adolescent in between physical and intellectual maturation very
   susceptible to suggestion, and such S'raak comprise the majority of
   the labour force. Due to the reactive nature of a sulphur based
   metabolism, S'raak life span is less than that of humans and mean age
   at death is 45-50 standard years. There are no known anagathic
   analogues.
   
   S'raak are non-homoeothermic and have no circadian rhythm. Instead
   their metabolic rate is determined by their environmental conditions.
   They require 4 hours rest in every forty or intellectual capacity is
   reduced due to fatigue. Extended periods of conditions less than 20
   degrees Celsius will bring on a catatonic like hibernation state.
   
   S'raak are omnivorous, with an emphasis on a high protein diet. They
   have five basic senses, concentrating on visual and aural, with vision
   extending into the near and far IR spectra and possessing low
   frequency sound sensitivity.
   
History

   Contacted by the Zhodani, Talpaku and Meichntid Ibl in 1100, although
   they had been under covert surveillance since 1098. The reason for
   contact was to coerce the S'raak to ally themselves, with the intent
   of gaining a strategic foothold in the middle of the then
   Talpaku-Zhodani Demilitarised Zone. Prior to contact, the S'raak were
   a barbaric, uncivilised race locked in continual warfare between
   warring Clans. Seeing the off-worlders as abominations in the view of
   their complicated and badly understood religion, the S'raak Clans
   unified and secretly declared a jihad to destroy all life not native
   to their world (rather ambitious, but at tech level 4 they had little
   comprehension of what this task entailed). Since contact, the S'raak
   elite Council began soliciting all parties, plus various shady trading
   organisations, and whilst playing each side off against one another,
   exchanged their abundance of radioactives and heavy metals for
   technological information, hardware and expertise. They also
   instituted a breeding program to raise the S'raak population from
   levels kept low by inter Clan warfare to create a massive army.
   
   The result was an enormous jump in tech level. However this technology
   primarily applies to personal and heavy military equipment and space
   transport technology. All other fields such as medicine, etc are
   significantly lower, with some jumps in tech in selected areas such as
   communications and power. Their small interstellar navy was built
   using S'raak constructed hulls and imported jump drives. The primary
   source of the jump drives were the Wyld World pirates and several
   shady corporations. Other jump capable warships were "acquired" from a
   variety of other sources.
   
   In 1160 the S'raak launched an invasion of the Zhodani Consulate and
   the Talpaku Communality and raided systems in the region near to their
   homeworld. The war initially went well for the S'raak who achieved
   several noted victories through a combination of surprise and a
   willingness to accept very heavy casualty rates. In time however, the
   S'raak were pushed back into the area of the old Talpaku/Zhodani DMZ.
   Due to troubles at home the various enemies of the S'raak did not
   crush them but agreed to a ceasefire. The ceasefire was later
   confirmed by a treaty which allowed the S'raak to keep those systems
   in the old DMZ that they currently occupied and the S'raak Empire was
   officially founded in 1162. See the S'raak War for further details.
   
S'raak Timeline

   -950
          S'raak achieve TL 1
   -300
          Zhodani Scouts discover budding S'raak Civilisation and declare
          Khaar a Forbidden world. Talpaku and Meichntid Ibl agree and
          also declare system off limits. After initial period of
          interest, everybody moves on to other matters and the S'raak
          are all but forgotten.
   176
          S'raak reach TL 2
   723
          S'raak reach TL 3
   1031
          S'raak reach TL 4
   1098
          Zhodani rediscover S'raak, but attempt to suppress news after a
          plan is formed to use them for their own purposes.
   1099
          Talpaku and Meichntid Ibl independently hear rumours and (after
          investigation) also rediscover the S'raak.
   1100
          Talpaku, Zhodani and Meichntid Ibl all contact S'raak hoping to
          use them for their own purposes, triggering a massive
          xenophobic reaction in the S'raak population. Clan Unification
          - Elite Council formation and end of balkanisation. S'raak
          Elite Council pretend to go along with all parties to gain
          technical assistance but secretly declare Holy War against all
          offworlders.
   1102
          Massive breeding program instigated by the Elite Council to
          create an army for the upcoming Holy War.
   1103
          Nefarious traders begin exchanging military hardware for S'raak
          heavy metals and radioactives.
   1112
          S'raak reach TL 5
   1120
          S'raak reach TL 6, nuclear weapons testing begins.
   1124
          Orbital defences around Khaar completed
   1126
          Automated system defences operative. S'raak declare system
          off-limits to all vessels of foreign Empires.
   1137
          S'raak achieve TL 7
   1153
          S'raak achieve TL 8, hull building program begun using imported
          jump drives to create a jump capable Navy. Jump drives are
          obtained via Wyld Worlds pirates.
   1159
          S'raak attack systems of the Talpaku Communality, Meichntid Ibl
          and Zhodani Consulate using vessels originating from an
          opposing power. The S'raak hope to provoke war between the
          three powers and attack once they have been weakened.
   1160
          S'raak plans uncovered by adventurers and leaked to Talpaku
          Communality media. S'raak decide to invade everyone immediately
          - S'raak War.
   1161
          S'raak beaten back and ceasefire called.
   1162
          S'raak sign treaty to end the war. S'raak Empire officially
          created.
   1181
          S'raak expeditions launched into Tsadra Sector.
   1185
          First permanent S'raak colony established in Tsadra Sector.
   1195
          In response to increasing levels of piracy, Talpaku Communality
          accuses S'raak Empire of issuing letters of marque.
   1201
          The Present. Diplomatic relations between the S'raak Empire and
          everyone except the Wyld Worlds pirates are strained.
          
Society

   The unification of S'raak Clans occurred in 1101 due to an
   overwhelming xenophobic response to contact. The basic administrative
   unit is still the Clan, with each Clan sending representatives to the
   Administrative council, who deal with day to day tasks. Two other
   councils exist; the Military Council and the Technological Research
   Council. All three councils report solely to the Elite council,
   comprised of Clan elders from the strongest Clans.
   
   Little detail is known about S'raak social structure. It is known that
   virtually all S'raak are members of the military in some way. The
   S'raak Empire maintains a standing army under the direct control of
   the Military council, however each clan also maintains it's own
   military forces which are under the direct control of the Clan elders.
   In theory the Military Council may draw forces from the Clan military
   forces, however inter Clan politics often causes problems with this
   procedure. Since the creation of the S'raak Empire much of the
   specialised labour and manufacturing tasks has been taken over by
   Slaves on Khaar itself and non S'raak serfs on the worlds conquered by
   the Empire.
   
   The only known S'raak custom is that the bodies of slain Warriors and
   Elders are ritually consumed at a feast so that the soul of the dead
   will remain with their tribe and aid it in times of great need. Many
   researchers have referred to this custom as evidence that the S'raak
   area race of uncivilised beings who have obtained advanced technology
   much too soon and for which they are incapable of responsible use.
   
New Game Rules For S'raak

   Note: S'raak characters are only possible if previously permitted by
   the referee. They should be allowed only under exceptional
   circumstances. Referees should consider it to be his or her duty to
   victimise S'raak characters when outside their own space, because just
   about everyone dislikes or outright hates them. The same applies to
   the rest of the party where it is obvious they have a S'raak as a
   friend. On some worlds, it is a criminal offence just to be a S'raak.
   
   S'raak should be rolled up as normal except that Strength and
   Endurance/Constitution each have a +1 DM, Intelligence has a -1 DM and
   Education has a -3 DM (minimum 1). Social Standing and/or Charisma are
   normal on worlds of the S'raak Empire and when meeting other S'raak,
   but otherwise treat each as if 3 lower than the actual value (minimum
   1).
   
   To determine the age of a S'raak character, multiply number of terms
   by 4 and add 11. Aging is resolved by rolling for all four stats
   (Strength, Agility/Dexterity, Constitution/Endurance and Intelligence)
   at the end of the fourth and subsequent terms, with a -1 DM applied to
   saving rolls for the fifth and subsequent terms. Anagathics are not
   available for S'raak. The reduction in a stat due to aging is 1 point,
   plus the DM. So at the end of the fifth term, saves are at -2 and each
   failed roll reduces the affected stat by 2. At the end of the sixth
   term, saves are at -3 and each failed roll reduces the affected stat
   by 3.
   
   The following TNE careers only are available for S'raak: Barbarian,
   Bounty Hunter, Civil Engineer, Construction Worker, Corsair, Criminal,
   Farmer, Hunter, Law Enforcement (actually a branch of the military),
   Mechanic, Prisoner, Rebel, Scientist, Scout, Tough, Trader, Army,
   Aviation, Navy, Marines, Special Ops. Note in particular that the
   S'raak do not particularly like water (they patrol seas and oceans
   from the air or space), so there is no merchant marine or wet navy
   career and no S'raak character should select Swimming or Small/Large
   Watercraft skills.
   
   When exposed to radiation, assume the exposure was only one-fifth the
   actual value to administer effects. Burn damage (even from incendiary
   chemicals and plasma/fusion gun debris) is always one-half normal.
   Poison effects vary - the unusual nature of S'raak biology mean that
   substances will not affect S'raak in the same way as humans. For
   poisons, roll d6 and apply a DM to the poison damage die roll
   accordingly: 1=-2, 2=-1, 3 or 4 means use die rolls unmodified, 5=+1,
   6 =+2. This need only be done once per type of poison.
   
   S'raak do not react well to cold environments. Unprotected S'raak in a
   cold region will begin to suffer from impaired mental processes after
   three hours exposure. Their bodies also slow down, dramatically
   reducing reaction times. After five hours continued exposure to a cold
   environment a S'raak will fall into a state of hibernation and will
   remain in that state until either the temperature improves, they
   starve to death, or they die from excessive exposure and cold
   (prolonged exposure to temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius.)
   
S'raak Homeworld

   Khaar 0221 B5728CE-A  K             R 812 Sr G0V
   
   Khaar: Period 2.11 standard days. Diameter 8480 Kilometres. Density
   1.3 (heavy core). Mass 0.317 standard. Mean surface gravity 0.811g.
   Rotation Period 21 hours 12 minutes. Axial Inclination 33{ 46' 9.8".
   Energy Absorption 0.860. Surface Atmospheric Pressure 0.85.
   Composition: low oxygen-nitrogen mix with sulphur taint. Hydrographic
   Percentage: 15% (liquid water). Mean Surface Temperature: 98{C (371
   K). Native Life.Total World Population: Exact figure unknown.
   Resources: heavy metals, ores, radioactives.
   
   Other Names: Shtenzh Zhi (Zhodani), S'raaka (Forday's Fortune)
   
   Political Structure: Contrary to what might be expected from the
   Capital of an interstellar state, the surface of Khaar is divided into
   various districts, each under the control of a different clan. The
   size of each district varies according to the area granted to that
   clan at the formation of the Elite Council. Typically the largest
   Districts are in the possession of the strongest clans which make up
   the Elite Council.
   
   Although every district is responsible to the Elite council, they are
   virtually autonomous areas under the complete control of the ruling
   clan. Each clan maintains its own standing army and rules its district
   virtually as it desires - within certain restrictions imposed by the
   Elite Council. Each year the Administrative Council informs each
   district of what it must supply to the Empire. Also the Military
   Council may requisition Clan troops to supplement Empire forces.
   
   The Military, Administrative, Research and Elite councils are based in
   the Capital District, the largest of all the districts. The Capital
   District is under the direct control of the Elite Council (via the
   Administrative council). Khaar's primary Starport is also located in
   the Capital District.
   
   WARNING: The Surface of Khaar is strictly off limits to non-S'raak
   (except slaves). Note also that the environment of Khaar, in addition
   to its sulphur taint, has numerous areas of high radiation.
   
Roleplaying S'raak

   When roleplaying any S'raak character, it is important to remember
   that all S'raak view non S'raak sophonts as abominations. This
   attitude is a result of the teachings of their poorly understood
   religion (it mostly being poorly understood because the S'raak aren't
   too keen to explain it to abominations). S'raak typically view non
   S'raak as something to be exploited or manipulated for their own
   purposes.
   
   Most non S'raak find the S'raak to be arrogant, condescending and very
   militant. Most S'raak who are expected to have frequent dealings with
   non S'raak (such as traders or customs officials) are given special
   diplomatic training to make them less hostile towards non S'raak.
   However, only members of the S'raak Empire Diplomatic Corps are well
   trained enough to disguise the natural S'raak contempt for all other
   races.
   
   S'raak player characters should treat non S'raak members of their
   party with a great deal of contempt and should always try to give the
   impression that they are making a great sacrifice just being in their
   company and, and in fact doing them a great favour by allowing the non
   S'raak to be around them.
   
   Threats by non S'raak against a S'raak are seldom a good idea. S'raak
   will often respond to a threat by a non S'raak with violence,
   generally utilising the most powerful weapon available to them at the
   time. S'raak will kill non S'raak with little provocation, often
   having great difficulty seeing anything wrong with this (as all non
   S'raak are abominations and will all have to be killed or enslaved
   eventually anyway). It is a really bad idea for S'raak to become
   involved with things like brawls, as casualties inevitably occur.
   
   Virtually all S'raak have a keen interest in technological items, even
   if they have no idea what they are or what they do. S'raak are well
   known for buying all sorts of odd pieces of technology, at all sorts
   of prices, and shipping them back to Khaar for study by the research
   council. An average S'raak has little real understanding of science or
   how technology works and so will cheerfully buy all sorts of rubbish.
   
   When roleplaying S'raak characters it is important to bear in mind
   that the S'raak are from a clan orientated culture which is extremely
   militant. S'raak have not had access to high technology for long and
   most of them have little understanding of how it works. More often
   than not, when a S'raak is confronted with a difficult situation it
   will attempt to resolve it by military means.
   




 The S'raak War 

The S'raak War
    by David Schneider
    Date: 28 June 1994
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
     Note: This document is based upon the notes of Professor Ellen F.
     Nelion, Faculty of History, University of Forday's Fortune. Students
     desiring more detailed information on the war are directed to refer
     to Professor Nelion's textbook, The Jihad: A Comprehensive Guide to
     the S'raak War, University of Forday's Fortune Press, 1175. This
     textbook is available in the University's bookshop.
     
Introduction

   The S'raak War is the last major interstellar conflict to occur in
   within the boundaries of Yiklerzdanzh in recent times. On the surface,
   it is often surprising to new students that the war occurred after
   such a long period of comparative peace. The gradual improvement of
   diplomatic relations between the various states in the sector had been
   continuing for a very lengthy period of time, and apart from pirate
   activities, the only real hot spot in the Sector concerned the
   deteriorating relations between the Akigura Union and Salinaikin
   Concordance. Yet, when the causes are clearly examined, it becomes all
   too clear as to how the war came about. There is an ancient Terran
   expression, "as Ye sow, so shall Ye reap". There can be little doubt
   that the eagerness of the Zhodani Consulate, Talpaku Communality, and
   Meichntid Ibl to achieve a strategic foothold in the old
   Demilitarised Zone, effectively set the stage for this bloody
   conflict. Sloppy or non existent first contact procedures by all three
   States triggered a massive xenophobic reaction in the primitive
   S'raak, one that may Xenologists argue could have been avoided if
   correct procedures had been followed.
   
   Hostilities extended into six subsectors and involved five
   interstellar states. These were the Zhodani Consulate, Talpaku
   Communality, Carillon Harmonies, S'raak Empire, and Meichntid Ibl.
   Numerous non aligned and independent systems were also caught up in
   the fighting, as the S'raak surged into space, determined to claim
   their place in the sun. S'raak raiders are known to have ranged over a
   large area, however the full extent of their operations may never be
   known.
   
Causes

   As with most Wars, the causes of the S'raak War may, with hindsight,
   be easily found by examining events which occurred in the years prior
   to the War. The S'raak War, many writers claim, was a direct result of
   poor contact procedures with a race who were quite simply not ready to
   be contacted. The S'raak, at the time of first contact in 1100 by
   Meichntid Ibl, the Zhodani Consulate and Talpaku Communality. The
   reason for contact by these three states was simple. All sought a
   strategic advantage by getting the S'raak to ally themselves with that
   particular power. This would have allowed them to neatly bypass the
   conditions of the Demilitarised Zone Treaty, which had been in effect
   since the Second Talpaku War. Each of the three powers secretly made
   contact with the S'raak, who were then at tech level 4, and offered
   them essentially the same deal; "be our friends and we will give you
   knowledge and technological assistance". It is interesting to note
   that neither the Talpaku Communality and Meichntid Ibl, who were
   allied to each other at that time, thought it appropriate to inform
   the other about what they had done. Declassified documents from all
   three States show that when the S'raak were contacted, the First
   Contact manual went out the window.
   
   The effect of this sudden interstellar contact upon the low tech
   reptilian S'raak was swift and dramatic. The S'raak, who at that time
   were divided into numerous warring tribes quickly unified and created
   an elite council made up of members from the strongest tribes. The
   first action of this council was to declare a secret holy war against
   what were perceived to be "abominations" from the stars. In short, the
   S'raak under went a massive xenophobic reaction. After being on the
   wrong end of what the contact teams described as "contact troubles",
   the S'raak realised that they didn't have a hope of beating their new
   found enemies at their current tech level. So it was decided to go
   along with all parties in order to gain as much technological
   assistance as possible.
   
S'raak Industrialise

   The following years saw a dramatic increase in the S'raak's tech
   level, as the S'raak became more and more adept at playing the three
   powers off against each other. It also saw massive social change in
   S'raak civilisation and culture. S'raak society rapidly became more
   and more military orientated with power shifting from the tribal level
   to the elite council, with a great emphasis placed upon centralisation
   of vital industries. The S'raak also instituted a massive breeding
   program, in order to dramatically increase their population, in order
   to create the massive army that would be required to take the war to
   the aliens. Great sacrifices were made by the S'raak people in order
   to begin huge industrialisation projects and to build vital
   infrastructure.
   
   As time passed the S'raak were able to make contact with some
   unscrupulous traders who had blundered into the S'raak's home system,
   Khaar (0221), which was then known as Shtenzh Zhi. These traders
   proved most willing to provide the S'raak with information and
   technology that their benefactors were unwilling to release, so the
   S'raak were soon able to acquire jump drive technical data and several
   functioning examples. The S'raak soon also had a regular trade run
   with these traders, who were able to put the S'raak into contact with
   the Wyld Worlds pirates. The S'raak were soon buying any technological
   item the traders or pirates had to sell. None of the major powers were
   aware of these developments as they had long since been restricted to
   specific landing sites on the planets surface and all had declared the
   system to be a Red Zone long ago.
   
   Upon gaining jump drive technology, the S'raak proceeded to construct
   shipyards and began to produce their own star and space ship hulls.
   Jump drive components were put into production, but it was found to be
   difficult to produce complete jump drive units, and the S'raak were
   forced to import jump drives, and many types of jump drive components
   from sources in Wyld Worlds subsector. This also allowed them to
   produce vessels with a much higher jump than their tech level could
   possibly allow. In spite of this, the S'raak continued to experience
   great difficulty in producing or obtaining good quality jump drive
   components. This problem continued to dog the S'raak for the rest of
   the war. The S'raak also began to assimilate and analyse data
   concerning surrounding systems, and the political relationship between
   their neighbouring interstellar states. It was following analysis of
   this data that the S'raak came up with their master plan, and overall
   strategy to wage war upon their numerically superior enemies.
   
The S'raak Master Plan

   The S'raak established a number of secret bases in several systems.
   These systems were Pezeibifiench (0723), Stiepldrofr (0922), and
   Chtiejtlenz (0921). In addition, the S'raak had covertly colonised the
   then barren Zhodani system of Enz (0119), and the barren system of
   Yenzhshiavr (0322). They were also able to gain aid from the String of
   Pearls subsector pirates. These pirates had been suffering from
   improved Communality anti-piracy patrols, and were desperate to
   deflect Talpaku military interest from their region. Upon learning of
   the existence of the S'raak from their Wyld Worlds brethren, the
   String of Pearls Pirates provided the S'raak with equipment which was
   instrumental in the establishment of these bases.
   
   The S'raak put their plans into operational effect in 1159. From their
   secret bases the S'raak made a series of surprise attacks upon border
   systems of Meichntid Ibl, the Consulate and the Communality. These
   attacks were made using vessels similar in design to vessels from
   another state. These attacks were then blamed by the major states upon
   one another. This led to increased tensions between the Communality
   and Meichntid Ibl with the Consulate, and resulted in a number of
   minor incidents which helped to further inflame the situation. The
   S'raak were hoping to provoke a major war between the powers. Their
   plan was simple. Once the three states had become significantly
   weakened by fighting each other, the S'raak would launch their own
   offensive. The S'raak General Staff felt that they had a good chance
   of a successful conclusion to the campaign following this strategy.
   
The S'raak Strike

   Things were proceeding well for the S'raak by the start of 1160. The
   Meichntid Ibl and Zhodani Consulate were upon the verge of open war
   and the Talpaku Communality was in the process of mobilising its
   defence forces. Then something unforseen occurred which threw the
   S'raak's plans into disarray. A group of adventurers from Forday's
   Fortune (0929) came to Khaar to investigate the reason for the red
   zone. They encountered the S'raak and were able to uncover what the
   S'raak were up to and escape to the Talpaku Communality, to warn
   authorities there. The S'raak, realising that this stage of their
   plans had been thwarted, decided to move their timetable forward. The
   S'raak High Command gave orders for immediate mobilisation and
   invasion of their neighbours.
   
   The Talpaku Communality had some warning of the impending S'raak
   attack. Meichntid Ibl had virtually no warning, what warning they did
   receive came from the Talpaku Communality and arrived scant hours
   before the S'raak war fleets. The Zhodani though, were completely
   unprepared for the S'raak attack. The Zhodani commander, Admiral
   Plaedr, mistook the S'raak attacks as being the result of Meichntid
   Ibl aggression. He ordered a major invasion of Meichntid Ibl. This
   invasion was a major success for the S'raak planners, as it divided
   the S'raak's enemies and drew valuable resources and forces away from
   the S'raak.
   
   The War took an immediate turn for the worst for the enemies of the
   S'raak. The S'raak were able to overrun the independent systems of
   Pieflip (0323), Piaplripref (0520), Bridgeworld (0421), Venzhsbiav
   (0322), Jelobrzech (0523), Pezeibifiench (0723) and Tietliejdia (0821)
   were overrun by the S'raak in fairly short order. S'raak attacks were
   launched against the Zhodani systems of Sntiefa (0319), Kili (0518)
   and Yidlpiants (0318). The Talpaku systems of Fairwater (0423) and
   Pearl (0223), as well as several other Talpaku systems, also came
   under determined S'raak attack. The S'raak secret bases were activated
   resulting in the capture of Chtiejtlwnz (0921) and Stiepldrofr (0922),
   two virtual Meichntid Ibl client states. In addition S'raak deep
   raiders struck deep into the surrounding states
   
   The Zhodani invasion of the Meichntid Ibl was an unmitigated
   disaster. Although the Zhodani invaded with massively superior
   numbers, this was not enough to compensate for a number of factors
   working against them. These were the essentially poor (some say panic
   stricken) planning of the entire operation, the inexperience of the
   majority of the Zhodani crews, the obsolete ships still in service,
   and the haste in which the entire operation was put together. In spite
   of heroic efforts on the part of Zhodani crews and fleet officers, the
   invasion quickly lost coherency and was repulsed by the Meichntid Ibl
   with heavy losses. It was not long before the Meichntid Ibl counter
   attacked.
   
   While the Zhodani and Meichntid Ibl waged war upon each other under
   the mistaken belief that they each were responding to the others
   aggression, the S'raak turned their attention towards Stellar Chorus
   Subsector. Advancing S'raak forces overran Netsiazdinsh (1023),
   Afalliia (0924), and Chokrqil (1024). Ianzhva (1025) was the furthest
   system to rimward that the S'raak were able to make serious attacks
   against, although they never came close to over running the system.
   S'raak raiders however, were able to range much further to rimward.
   
The Tide Turns

   Carillon, Forday's Fortune and some Talpaku forces were eventually
   able to launch a strong enough counter attack to drive the badly over
   extended S'raak from the subsector. However, these victories did not
   come cheaply. S'raak ground forces fought fanatically, and in several
   instances S'raak forces who were cut off fought to the death. Forces
   deployed against the S'raak experienced high casualty rates. The
   Meichntid Ibl were able to divert sufficient second line troops from
   the Zhodani front to liberate the 'independent' systems of Chtiejtlenz
   and Stiepldrofr, although with appalling losses. Talpaku defence
   forces were also successful in repelling all invading S'raak forces
   from within their borders, and liberated the pro Talpaku system of
   Pieflip.
   
   The S'raak High Command found itself in a very difficult position.
   S'raak forces had been defeated and forced to withdraw from Stellar
   Chorus subsector with substantial losses. They had also been driven
   from the borders of the Talpaku Communality, Meichntid Ibl and the
   Zhodani Consulate. The S'raak were over extended, had suffered massive
   losses in terms of personnel and were experiencing great difficulty in
   replacing material losses. Starships were particularly hard to
   replace, and repair and maintenance (never terribly good to begin
   with) was growing worse, which combined with poor quality S'raak jump
   drives, was leading to an increasing number being lost to misjumps.
   
   The S'raak High Command was forced to conclude that they were losing
   the war, and that the longer hostilities continued, the higher the
   probability of being utterly defeated. The High Command had no option
   but to recommend to the Elite Council that the S'raak Empire should
   sue for peace. To set the stage for this the S'raak launched a massive
   raiding offensive. The orders for this offensive were to cause as much
   damage as possible so as to put the other combatants into a mood
   desiring peace.
   
   In time it was decided by the war weary powers that a ceasefire was
   indeed an attractive option. This was particularly the case with the
   Zhodani Consulate, partly because of internal dissent as a result of
   the poor way the War had been handled by the government and the
   Admirals and partly because of the Empress Wave from coreward. Keen to
   bring the war to a swift conclusion, the Consulate had already ceded
   several systems to the Meichntid Ibl as part of its ceasefire
   agreement. With all parties interested in suspending hostilities, in
   the mistaken belief that the S'raak were much better off than they
   actually were, the S'raak Peace Accords were signed.
   




 The Talpaku 

   
The Talpaku
    By Grant Sinclair
    Date: 29th March 1995
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   This report is the result of a study of the Talpaku, in a joint
   project with the Talpaku Communality government. Each of the sections
   is by a different author, some human, some Talpaku. This first is by
   Giwhe Low Laughter, Professor of Biology at Bluewater University.
   
Contents

    1. Physiology
    2. Psychology
    3. Society & Culture
       
Physiology

   Height and Weight: We Talpaku (pronounced Tal-pak'-u, singular Talpak)
   are smaller and lighter than humaniti. Females are about 1.7 m tall,
   males are about 1.6 m tall. Even though we are wider at the hips than
   humaniti, we are still lighter - massing about 65 kg in the case of
   females, 60 kg in the case of males.
   
   Appearance: The first Terran to see our race thought we resembled
   giant moles, since the first Talpak he saw was a uniform dark-grey in
   colour and we often still like to live underground. In fact, the
   typical Talpak is more similar to a marsupial of the Terran
   island-continent of Australia.
   
   Our short fur is usually a tan, light brown or light grey in colour,
   mottled by white, darker brown, grey or black. Our eyes are larger
   than those of humans, and glassy black in appearance. Our snout is
   evidence of our pre-historical liking for roots and worms and our
   larger ears reflect the importance of hearing when hunting in low
   light conditions.
   
   We have 3 fingers and a thumb on each hand, and five toes on each
   foot.
   
   Diet: We need a wide variety of nutrients to survive, eating
   everything from roots to large animals. In recent centuries, we have
   finally learned to synthesise most of the nutrients we need, allowing
   us to issue our troops with concentrated food pellets. Previously, our
   troops needed to carry great quantities of food with them (some
   requiring refrigeration), or else be very vulnerable to cuts in supply
   lines.
   
   We don't like cooked or smoked meat, though we eat it if there is no
   alternative. Such meat is inadequate from a nutritional viewpoint, if
   consumed for more than a few weeks. Frozen meat is much better,
   satisfying all nutritional needs, but lacks a little in taste when
   compared to the real thing.
   
   Rest: Our circadian rhythm is 55 hours 47 mins long. We sleep and rest
   for about 19 hours, work for 9.5, rest for another 18.75 hours, then
   work for 9.5 more.
   
   Originally, our work periods corresponded to dawn and dusk periods
   respectively (dawn and dusk being in the middle of each period), since
   that is when we went hunting and gathering. A modern Talpak uses these
   times for more contemporary pursuits. It is becoming common for more
   and more Talpaku to extend the first work period into the rest period,
   and take a nap during the rest period to make up for it. The first
   half of the rest period is traditionally the time of most active
   social activity (since it is cooler then) and the second half is used
   for rest in the more literal sense.
   
   Reproduction: Our reproductive process is initially similar to that of
   humans. However, the young are born after only one month, when they
   crawl to the mother's pouch. They remain there for another 7 months,
   being suckled for the first three months of that time. In the last
   month, they are allowed to leave the pouch for increasingly longer
   periods, until the mother decides that the child is ready.
   
   No case of multiple births has ever been recorded for our race.
   However, a female can bear another child within a few months of the
   last, so a mother can have more than one child in her pouch at once. A
   mother can suckle up to three young at once.
   
   In times of poor food, an embryo would be "suspended" indefinitely,
   with growth resuming without ill effect when food improved. In modern
   times, this can be triggered quite easily by drugs. This allows our
   females to delay birth to a more convenient time, where necessary.
   
   In some cases, children allowed out of the pouch for a short time
   refuse to return to it. Such children grow up smaller than other
   Talpaku, and more of them become eccentric than usual.
   
   Senses: Our vision is inferior to humans during the day, but we have
   much better low-light vision. Our colour vision is also operative at
   lower light levels than humans. Our eyes are most sensitive to orange
   (due to the colour of our star). We cannot see some of the lowest red
   frequencies but see further into the ultraviolet than humans do - in
   fact, the group of frequencies we see past violet have a name in our
   language ("tegowa"). Some human clothing looks strange to us, for
   items which look all black to you contain strange splotches of colour
   that we can see (which once caused some "camouflaged" Zhodani
   commandoes trouble, for our guards just let them creep up and then
   disposed of them at close range). Humans say the same about us with
   red.
   
   After being in daylight for more than 10 hours, our eyes become sore.
   To remain in such light, we need sunglasses or eyedrops at least; by
   preference, we retire to shade or a more dimly lit room for an hour or
   so.
   
   Our hearing is better than humans, both in ability to hear for further
   distances and in ability to determine direction of sound.
   
   Anatomy: Talpaku (as with all life forms on Talpakuhome) have small
   lungs, since the high oxygen taint means that human sized lungs are
   unnecessary. This means that we can only live easily on worlds with a
   dense atmosphere, tainted with high oxygen. After an adaptation
   period, we can live in standard atmospheres with a high oxygen taint.
   
   Lifespan: Normally, we live for about 90 of your Imperial years.
   Proper medical attention commonly extends this to about 120 years, but
   greater lifespans will not be possible until anagathics can be
   developed for our race.
   
   At present, we must use such alternatives as fast drug, chill berths
   and cold berths to enhance lifespan (fortunately, our race has
   ancestors which practiced hibernation, and so we find that we rarely
   experience ill-effects from such procedures). Obviously, these can
   only be used in time that would otherwise would be wasted (e.g. time
   spent in jump space).
   
   Some feel that a longer lifespan may explain why we have been able to
   have such a long-lived, stable interstellar state, and why we attach
   importance to social and cultural activities. However, we believe that
   these are better explained by psychological traits.
   
Psychology

   Gregarious: We Talpaku are more gregarious than humaniti and most of
   us feel uncomfortable when alone. Unlike other sophonts who have a
   desire for the company of their fellows, we Talpaku do not prefer to
   select companionship from clan or tribal groupings. We generally enjoy
   the company of any of our fellows.
   
   Our gregarious nature shows through in the popularity of festivals and
   group activities.
   
   Possession Instinct: To us, theft is just as serious a crime as
   murder. If someone were to steal something of mine, or to threaten it,
   I would feel it as if someone had stolen part of my very soul. My
   instinct would be to react with anger and violence. If a human visitor
   knows only one thing about us, it had better be this.
   
   Persistence: One of the things which endeared Imperial and then
   Regency humans to our race was their legend of the tortoise and the
   hare. This strikes a chord with us, for we believe in slow, steady
   progress to a set goal. Once we set ourselves on our goal, we are not
   easily diverted from it.
   
   It is this characteristic which has allowed us to maintain our culture
   and interstellar state after millennia of contact with the powerful
   Zhodani, where other cultures have allowed themselves to be dominated
   and fall.
   
   Eccentricity: Some of our number, mainly those who left the pouch
   early, are eccentric. Most of these are harmless, colourful
   individuals with unusual habits or outlooks on life. Some of them have
   popular public broadcast programmes, while others are more reclusive.
   Some people deliberately join a particular commune in order to live
   with a colourful eccentric.
   
   Other eccentrics have darker twists. Most of them stop short of
   serious criminal activity, with activities ranging from practical
   jokes to confidence trickstery. Some go beyond this, committing more
   terrible crimes than any "sane" criminal. Their activities always have
   a touch of warped logic.
   
   Eccentrics are treated with great tolerance until they break criminal
   law. Once this fine line is crossed, they are treated no differently
   to "normal" citizens.
   
   In general, however, these people enrich our society and lives.
   
   Names: Our true names are quite long, and change over time. Initially,
   our names have three components: a physical reference (e.g.
   White-eye), a family name (based on matriarchal lines) and place of
   birth (e.g. Blue Water). After coming of age, a fourth reference based
   on personality or career is added (e.g. Big Drinker). In some cases, a
   special particle is added to indicate status (e.g. member of
   government). Most of the physical references cannot be readily
   translated into Galanglic (there are just not enough words in the
   language) and so the Talpaku term is used instead.
   
   We Talpaku gain great pleasure from names, and some of us collect
   them. It is not possible to determine gender from our names.
   
   An abbreviated version of the name, consisting only of the physical
   reference and personality reference, is sufficient for everyday
   purposes (e.g. Giwhe Low Laughter).
   
Talpaku Society

   Even after millenia of a space-going society, virtually all Talpaku
   are citizens of their single interstellar state. This is partly due to
   a feeling that it is necessary to unite against the Zhodani, but
   mostly due to their strong feelings of companionship with each other.
   The Talpaku are used to working and living with each other and have by
   necessity learned the social skills to deal with each other. Of
   course, there are always exceptions. Our sociologist, Jane Wilkins,
   has interviewed a number of Talpaku for the following report.
   
   Possession instinct: Our possession instinct also applies on a racial
   level to our racial possessions (i.e. our interstellar state). If we
   have things stolen from us, or even if we feel threatened, we react
   swiftly. A world which we have explored but not settled is perceived
   by us to be as much "ours" as Talpakuhome itself. Aliens (such as the
   Zhodani and the S'raak) have sometimes misunderstood this and so
   provoked us.
   
   Eating habits: In early times, we needed to group together to hunt or
   gather food. From this has developed our custom of eating with others.
   If you, as a human, walked into one of our restaurants and selected an
   empty table (following your own instincts), any Talpak sitting alone
   would feel greatly insulted. Of course, we understand you humans
   better now than we did, so it is unlikely that such a Talpak would
   attack you. No Talpaku would enter a restaurant and ignore a Talpak
   sitting alone.
   
   Communal society: In our pre-history, we Talpaku had a very loose
   social structure. We had to live in groups to survive, but did not
   need to stay in one particular group for life. Individuals were free
   to come and go as they chose, and conflict occurred between
   individuals, rather than between groups. Such conflicts could be quite
   vicious.
   
   Our society today is largely unchanged from prehistoric times,
   preferring to live in large, sprawling Takh. As a result, our smallest
   settlements tend to be larger than the smallest human settlements, but
   our largest tend to be smaller than the largest human settlements.
   
   Pair bondings are rarely permanent, so the father of a child is often
   unknown. Descent is traced through maternal lines. Young are the
   collective responsibilities of the community.
   
   An example of our community attitude concerns sleeping arrangements.
   With our fur, we can sleep alone without bedclothes in the warmer
   months, but prefer not to. If cold at night, our first reaction is not
   to put on more bedclothes, but to wonder if there is someone nearby to
   sleep with. For this reason, all Takh have a large bedchamber, so that
   all can sleep together.
   
   Clothing: We have no nudity taboo and just wear clothes as ambient
   temperature requires. One of the great things that we have learned
   from humans is that dressing up can be fun, and fancy dress parties
   are very popular. The fact that we cannot see as deep into the colour
   red, and can see past violet means that our colour schemes may seem a
   little strange to you.
   
   {It is disconcerting to see giant moles running around with cheesy
   grins, dressed up like Napoleon - JW}
   
   Our place in Nature: We see ourselves as part of our ecology. I
   understand that you humans are different, seeing yourselves as
   different to "animals". For us, sentience is a gradual scale, not just
   a matter of being sentient or not sentient. If necessary, we would eat
   each other for food, though we find our own flesh to be tasteless,
   when compared to just about any alternative.
   
   We like exotic lifeforms of our own worlds and others. For most
   Talpaku, this interest shows in a love of pets (some take their pets
   with them to work). Some richer communes have private enclosures
   (these are usually large, in order to provide foodstuffs for the
   exhibits). Some richer Talpaku are collectors, owning safari ships
   similar to Regency designs and travelling many parsecs for a unique
   specimen. These are then shown off to enhance prestige.
   
   The Ketyeklu: Our nearest species relative is the Ketyeklu. These are
   a little larger than us, stronger but with much lower intelligence.
   They live in underground burrows on Talpakuhome, much as we did in our
   prehistory, emerging from them every day to hunt. We have always had a
   good relationship with the Ketyeklu, and there have been cases of
   communes which included members of both species. There are also
   ancient tales which are believed to be based on bands of Ketyeklu
   coming to our rescue when hunting ambushes went badly. The Ketyeklu
   have a very small and primitive vocabulary that includes some sounds
   shared with our own language.
   
   In our rise, we unknowingly deprived the Ketyeklu of much of their
   natural habitat and their numbers were reduced. After emigration to
   other worlds freed suitable land, we were able to create reservations
   for them.
   
   The Ketyeklu are now found in many parts of Talpakuhome (mostly in
   islands reserved for their use) and our ancient bond with them has
   been renewed. A few Talpaku share their primitive lifestyle with them,
   hunting without weapons and sleeping in their burrows. Others visit
   for a few weeks.
   
   Attitude to death: When one of us dies, we have a funeral to mourn the
   dead, telling anecdotes about the deceased. We often record anecdotes
   of our own, to be replayed at our own funerals. The bodily remains are
   of no significance to us, and these are disposed of matter of factly.
   Of more significance are the possessions of the deceased, which are
   distributed in accordance with the wishes of the deceased. If someone
   dies intestate, his or her possessions are destroyed, for none of us
   would accept them unless we were sure that the deceased wished it.
   
   We feel no outrage when one of us is killed and eaten by a creature
   that you would call an "animal", since it is just following its own
   nature. After all, we do the same thing to them.
   
   Religion: We had several religions in ancient times. The most powerful
   of these worshipped the gas giant Kitawhi, which dominated the sky of
   half of Talpakuhome. Although the religions have been largely
   abstracted into philosophies, remnants continue in sayings and
   customs.
   
   For instance, a worshipper of Kitawhi who travelled into lands from
   which it was not visible would take a pendant with a glittering disc
   of the same colour, as a "connection" with the god. Now, such an item
   is seen as a good luck charm, often given as a present to someone
   leaving to travel far away. This charm is also the origin of the
   glittering disc design that adorns the robot assigned to each
   government official for secretarial and clerical assistance.
   
   Another example is in a saying "... is a true child of Kitawhi",
   meaning someone who is persistent and never gives up (a trait admired
   by Talpaku).
   
   Currency: Each world has its own currency, the values of which
   fluctuate against each other according to economic circumstances.
   There is a "reference" unit of currency called the kuyo, which is used
   by the Communality government (e.g. in paying employees and the
   military and for it's own purchases), by multistellar companies,
   starports and for transactions between individuals and companies on
   different worlds. Most worlds use the technology for electronic funds
   transfer, in an attempt to avoid the possibility of theft. Banks
   commonly import higher tech security devices, such as passive full
   metabolic scanners, in order to attract customers over their
   competitors. The effect on the economy that a Virus outbreak would
   cause is currently a common topic of conversation.
   
   If necessary, the communications networks can be instructed to accept
   financial transfers via less secure means (e.g. over video
   communicator, when only limited security checking is possible, or over
   a voice only communicator, when only voice print analysis is
   possible). Such prior instructions must be done at a scanner with full
   metabolic scanner security.
   
   Any citizen (and non-citizen who has been onworld for more than 28
   days), must pay tax on income. The tax rate is variable (one rate
   until you have earned a certain amount, then a higher rate on
   subsequent income). This is of little concern to most visitors, since
   they tend to spend money rather than earn it.
   
   There are no such things as cheques or bearer bonds, and bartering for
   goods or services is illegal. Financial transactions are kept in
   strict confidence, like all other conversations and exchanges of data,
   so a cash economy is theoretically unnecessary.
   
   Mathematics: We have only 8 fingers and found ourselves with a base 8
   arithmetic system, for the same reason that humans chose base 10.
   Translators are not always able to tell when a figure is precise or
   approximate (just as human may or may not be being precise when saying
   "a thousand").
   
   Timekeeping: Our base measurements of time are the day or Wheda (about
   55.75 standard hours) and the year (about 48.3 local days). The year
   is subdivided into 2 seasons of 24 local days each, with an extra 3
   days every 9 local years.
   
   Other divisions of time are shown in the table below. Note the impact
   of base 8 arithmetic on subdivisions of time.

     Period      Equivalent     Approx Human Value
   1 Keplek                     1.02 standard seconds
   1 Whagok     64 Kepleks      1.09 standard minutes
   1 Kzawekl    64 Whagoks      1.16 standard hours
   1 Zduptaki    8 Kzawekl      9.30 standard hours
   1 Wheda       6 Zduptakis   55.75 standard hours
   
   The translations of the names of each Zduptaki are, in order,
   Firstdark, Latedark, Rising, Basktime, Homeseek and Cooling. The
   translations of the seasons are, simply, Summer (the first season of
   the year) and Winter (the second). Days (and other periods of time
   shorter than the Zduptaki) are simply numbered.
   
   Takh: Most of us live in large groups called Takh (same word for
   singular and plural; meaning similar to a Terran commune or kibutz).
   This allows us to be with others of our kind (important due to our
   gregarious nature) but without danger of theft (since this is so
   abhorrent to us). It is necessary to buy a "share" in a takh before
   being allowed to live there. Shares in popular takh are prized.
   
   Most takh have underground and overground sections. The sleeping
   quarters are underground (taking advantage of the dark and the fact
   that temperatures are more even there).
   
   Music: Most Talpaku love music, and many of us have some training. We
   prefer woodwinds, strings and percussion involving wood, and cannot
   understand what you humans enjoy about metal instruments. Many of us
   "sing", though most humans find it grating. Architects ensure that
   Takh have some rooms with good acoustics, since this is a selling
   point with us. Some of our Takh are built in near inaccessible
   locations, but are among the most desirable because they are near
   natural caves with good acoustics.
   
   We like human classical style music, preferring chamber music to
   orchestral music. Humans who bring us good pieces of music that we
   have not previously encountered enjoy a good selling price.
   
   Festivals: These are huge, energetic, boisterous affairs, with lots of
   music, revelry and good times. There are lots of entertainers in the
   streets, people dress up colourfully and the insides and outsides of
   buildings are adorned with decorations. The biggest festivals last for
   days.
   
   Our main festival is the Festival of Life (held at the start of each
   Summer). At this time, we celebrate our newborn, as well as our own
   birthdays (for we count our ages from our first Festival of Life, not
   from the anniversary of our birth). At our 16th Festival of Life, we
   receive the personality component of our names. The Festival of Life
   is supposed to be a time of good luck, although this is seen in modern
   times for the superstition it is. Our interstellar state was
   deliberately founded during the Festival of Life of that year.
   
   Our other major festival is the Festival of the Passing (held at the
   start of each Winter), when we remember loved ones who have died
   during the last year. This is not always the sad affair that humans
   might think, for we try to remember the good times as well as the
   sadness of their passing.
   
   The above are the only festivals celebrated simultaneously across our
   whole interstellar state. Individual worlds hold festivals of their
   own at other times of the year, though these are all smaller than the
   festivals of Life and Passing.
   
   Every 9 local years, the Festival of Life is preceded by a 3 day
   Festival of Sport. This is a great sporting event staged on one
   Talpaku world (selected at random during the previous extended
   Festival). One team may be entered from each stellar system. The
   series is extremely popular and recordings of each match are sent away
   as soon as possible. Like the Tea Clippers of ancient Terra, the first
   ship to bring a recording of a match to a world gets a premium price
   for it, enough to justify the purchase of expensive (but highly jump
   capable) ships for this purpose alone. Each Festival draws huge crowds
   of Talpaku, many of whom have been saving up since the previous
   Festival..
   
   The sport, called Whug Kzaki, originally started underground, when we
   lived in caverns interconnected by tunnels. Each team has 8 members,
   and start at a "home base" on opposite sides (though neither side
   knows the exact location of the base of the other side). Each team
   must then attempt to locate the base of the opposite team and take
   possession of their trophy, called their Kziyadtova. The sport is more
   violent than Regency games, since certain types of hand-to-hand combat
   are used when one player encounters a member of the opposite team. In
   normal versions of the game, the blows are purely superficial and
   result in being "out of the game" for short periods, but members of
   the military forces play a more dangerous version as part of commando
   training. There are rumoured to be illegal "underground" leagues that
   also involve more violent (sometimes lethal) battles.
   
   The game is normally played in the slow steady way that is a feature
   of our race, interspersed with flurries of activity when players meet.
   Players try to creep along silently, listening for opposition players,
   hoping to sneak unseen past corridors and the like. Encounters with
   the opposition are resolved much more quickly, preferably dealing with
   an opponent silently, so as to make it difficult for others to bring
   assistance.
   
   With technology, Whug Kzaki became a spectator sport. Cameras are set
   up in every chamber and corridor, on-screen maps show the locations of
   the team members, commentators describe the play and so on. They also
   allow the close refereeing that was previously impossible. Over the
   years, a three dimensional aspect was introduced, and, with space
   flight, a zero-G three dimensional version (since the game is ideal
   for space stations and habitats).
   
   Energy research: We have always had an aptitude for energy
   technologies and our achievement tech level there is higher than our
   general tech level. The reason for this is believed to have something
   to do with the high oxygen taint of our homeworld - internal
   combustion engines were dangerous, and so alternatives were needed.
   For many years, we believed that a nuclear reaction (fission or
   fusion) would ignite our atmosphere, and so such technologies were
   banned. It was not until scientists working with Kazka Eyes of Fire
   did it illegally that this was disproved. Even so, it was this fear
   which allowed our race to survive our mid-tech years without using
   nuclear weapons on each other.
   
   Attitude to psionics: No Talpak has ever been shown to have psionic
   powers. In fact, it was some years before we accepted that psionics
   existed at all. Unfortunately, our lack of ability with psionics does
   not prevent the Zhodani from using telepathy on us (being from a
   separate evolutionary path).
   
   If any Zhodani visitors are found to have used psionics on world, the
   penalty is death. We now insist that all Zhodani visitors are
   vouchsafed by another of their number, and the vouchsafer is also
   executed if a transgression occurs. After all, Zhodani should know
   which of their number is psionic and which aren't, surely? Sometimes,
   we even take hostages. We once executed a Zhodani ambassador for
   vouchsafing a psionic member of her entourage - this triggered the
   Second Talpaku War.
   
   We reserve the right to refuse visits from anyone suspected of
   psionics, whether proof is available or not.
   
   Language: Our language is comprised of whistles, clicks and so on.
   These are mostly controlled by the lips and vocals cords, and the
   tongue has little to do with it.
   
   So, Talpaku and Humaniti are physiologically incapable of speaking the
   others' language, though we can learn to understand the other's
   language reasonably well. A Human and Talpaku who each know the
   other's language will just speak to each other, each using their own
   language, but mutually comprehensible. Translators have recently
   become available (both translator machines and people of each race who
   know the other's language).
   
   Talpaku words are translated into Galanglic in two ways. Some words
   are translated according to meaning, since the name carries meaning to
   the thing (e.g. Broken Promise, Firestar).
   
   Others are translated by the use of an artificial language, replacing
   particular whistles and clicks with letters.





 Talpakuhome 

Talpakuhome
    By Grant Sinclair
    Date: 18th June 1996 (Finished)
    
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   Talpakuhome is both the political and cultural capital of the
   Communality. Virtually every body in the system has had inhabitants
   at some time or other, and some have greater populations
   than the entire population of other Talpaku stellar systems. This
   description of the system is by a Talpaku merchant ship owner and
   ex-surveyor, Whukikaka Quickfingers, in standard RISS format.
   
Contents

    1. Physical Notes
    2. Society Notes
    3. Other Worlds In The System
       
Physical Notes

   Star: K3 V, mass 0.672 standard, luminosity 0.642.
   
   Orbit: Talpakuhome is a satellite of the small gas giant Kitawhi, in
   orbit 1 (0.4 AU) from the star. Kitawhi is UWP size 62 (99,200 km
   diameter), density 0.13 for 60.5 Earth masses. It has a slightly
   eccentric orbit (e=0.01), an axial tilt of 29 degrees and an orbital
   period of 112 days 17 hours 15 mins (112.3 standard days). Rotational
   period is about 43 hours.
   
   Talpakuhome orbits Kitawhi at a distance of 297 600 km (6 radii),
   beyond the worst of Kitawhi's single radiation belt. Orbital period is
   2.324 standard days (55 hrs 47 mins 0 secs or 55.776 hrs);
   eccentricity is 0.05; inclination of orbit to the equator of the gas
   giant is negligible. Being tidally locked to Kitawhi, axial tilt
   relative to the star is the same as that of Kitawhi (29 degrees) and
   day length is the same as the orbital period around Kitawhi (55.765
   hours). Visible disk of Kitawhi from Talpakuhome is 19 degrees
   (compared to Luna's visible disk of 0.5 degrees from Terra).
   
   The complex interrelationship of the magnetic fields of Talpakuhome
   and Kitawhi are of great interest to scientists and spacecraft pilots
   alike. The magnetic field of Kitawhi is much weaker than that of
   larger gas giants (and is in fact weaker than that of Talpakuhome).
   Spacecraft pilots must be careful to avoid areas of space with great
   numbers of highly charged particles - this is tricky but by no means
   impossible. Talpakuhome arrival and departure is usually a matter of
   leaving at one of the magnetic poles and taking the quickest safe
   course away towards the outer system. The surface of Talpakuhome is
   protected by its own magnetic field.
   
   Size: Talpakuhome is 11680 km in diameter, with a molten core. World
   density is average (giving a mass of 0.67 Earth masses) and surface
   gravity is 0.9 standard. The Seismic stress factor is 7. The world
   exhibits a slight bulge towards Kitawhi.
   
   Atmosphere: Dense oxygen-nitrogen mix with high oxygen taint. Surface
   pressure 1.8 atmospheres.
   
   The high oxygen taint has resulted in an ozone layer that is much
   thicker than normal. This helps protects the inhabitants from
   ultra-violet and other rays from Kitawhi and Bright Light. The high
   oxygen taint also causes a greater than normal number and severity of
   bushfires.
   
   Without a filter mask, humans experience the first side effect of the
   high oxygen taint (dizziness) after about an hour. This is followed by
   steadily decreasing dexterity and decision making ability.
   
   There are many more aurorae in the upper atmosphere at night than on
   Terra - Talpakuhome residents find night skies of other worlds boring
   by comparison.
   
   Temperature: Base surface temperature is 15.2 degrees C (288.2 K).
   Rotation-Luminosity Factor 1.015. Axial tilt increases summer
   temperatures by 17 degrees C and decreases winter temperatures by 29
   degrees C. Day average increase 11 degrees C; night average decrease
   14 degrees C.

   Closest approach to the star (perihelion) occurs during the southern
   spring, increasing temperatures at that time by 0.3 degrees C.
   Furthest separation occurs during the southern autumn, decreasing
   temperatures by 0.3 degrees C.
   
   Note that the axial tilt means that summer nights and winter days do
   not occur within the arctic and antarctic circles at certain times of
   the year.
   
   Native Life: Yes. The dense atmosphere and high oxygen taint means
   that life thrives from the ocean deeps up to the skies.
   
   Many fish and sea creatures deal with the extremes of seasonal
   temperatures by migration. The remaining wildlife are forced to deal
   with the problem in different ways - usually by finding shelter from
   the heat and cold. Many animals are able to hibernate through the
   winter, including some racial relatives of the Talpaku.
   
   Hydrographics: 81%, tainted with high oxygen. Tectonic plates: 7.
   Volcanoes: 42.
   
   There are 2 major continents, 5 minor continents, 9 major islands and
   6 archipelagoes.
   
   Weather control: Yes.
   
   Terraforming: Hydrographic: No. Terrain: Yes. Atmosphere: No.
   Greenhouse: No. Albedo: No.
   
Society Notes

   Population: The 2.5 billion inhabitants of Talpakuhome are almost all
   Talpaku.
   
   The 2 primary cities are Blue Water (500 million, starport A) and
   Smoky Dawn (500 million, also starport A). There are 15 secondary
   cities with populations in the tens of millions, amounting to 750
   million inhabitants total (all of them have a type F spaceport). There
   are three orbital cities, one for each type A starport and one for the
   spaceports, totalling 42 million inhabitants in orbit. The remaining
   708 million inhabitants live in ground based tertiary communities, the
   largest of which is 9 million strong.
   
   Government: The executive/legislative branch of the Talpakuhome
   government is comprised of four takh. Each takh has a different
   political philosophy, rather like a political party in a democracy.
   Since size of a takh partly indicates popular support of its policies,
   the largest takh has the most influence. For instance, the head of
   this takh has the nominal Head of Government position. It is therefore
   in the interest of each takh to accept everyone it possibly can, and
   it is this open policy that gives the system continuing public
   support.
   
   The takh argue and discuss issues amongst themselves, receive advice
   from the public, conduct opinion polls and commission study groups
   where appropriate. These checks and balances, in conjunction with a
   free media, ensure that decisions made have the broad support of the
   public. Decisions can be slow, but this is Talpaku nature anyway.
   
   The judicial branch is independent, with members appointed by a panel
   consisting of all four governing takh.
   
   The communications network: Talpakuhome has a widespread network,
   which can handle voice, data and video transmissions. All but the
   smallest settlements have an orbital linkup, so access is possible to
   anyone with a communicator which can reach such a booster.
   Communicators with 500 km range are needed to reach direct to orbit.
   Many of us wear an earpiece communicator at all times, allowing
   hands-free access.
   
   Legal Profile: Law level is 8 overall (territorial for Talpaku,
   personal for aliens). Weapons=8, Trade=6, Criminal Law=9, Civil Law=9,
   Personal Freedom=5.
   
   Social Profile:
   
   Progressiveness: Talpakuhome has a "Conservative" society, which is
   advancing very slowly ("Indifferent").
   
   Aggressiveness: People are "Competitive" and are militarily
   "Militant". Their first response to any serious threat is force, and
   any diplomacy comes later.
   
   Extensiveness: Social customs are "Harmonious", people are "Aloof" to
   most alien offworlders but "Friendly" to Talpaku offworlders.
   
   This profile is typical of Talpaku worlds.
   
   Technology Profile: The highest tech level commonly found on
   Talpakuhome is 13; low common is 12. Certain specialist areas of
   expertise have tech levels as follows:
   
   Energy: 15
   Computer/Robotics: 12
   Communications: 13
   Medical: 12
   Environment: 13
   
   Land Transport: 13
   Water Transport: 13
   Air Transport: 13
   Space Transport: 13
   
   Personal Military: 15
   Heavy Military: 12
   Novelty: 15
   
   Trade: Resources: Agricultural, radioactives, crystals, compounds,
   agroproducts, metals, nonmetals, parts, durables, consumables,
   weapons, software, documents.
   
Other Worlds In The System

   Kitilku: is a companion satellite of Talpakuhome and was settled very
   early. It is 5440 km in diameter, has a density of 1.45 (due to heavy
   core) for a mass of 0.076 standard and surface gravity of 0.533. It
   orbits 446,400 km (9 radii) from the gas giant, with an orbital period
   of 4.27 standard days, axial tilt of 22 degrees, eccentricity of 0.01
   and a rotational period relative to the gas giant of 59 days 0 mins 21
   secs.
   
   The original atmosphere was a standard oxygen nitrogen mix, with
   surface pressure 1.10. Coupled with the pleasant base temperature of
   19.3 degrees C (292.3 K), the early Talpaku found that the world could
   be settled with little difficulty. It was a great source of ores. They
   used it for their main industry in later years, and so the atmosphere
   is now tainted with pollutants.
   
   Hwhik: This entire world is operated by the Talpaku Navy. It is used
   for training, resupply and repair. It is one of only a few worlds
   capable of repairing the new TL D ships in the Talpaku Navy.
   
   Petbazkezk: This world is mined sporadically by a small number of
   prospectors. These people have homes on Talpakuhome and consider
   themselves citizens of that world, even though they spend most of
   their time here. There have been occasional attempts to set up robot
   mining of the world (either programmed to go prospecting
   independently, or controlled by remote control by radio signals from
   Taklpakuhome), but none of these has lasted.
   
   Whulkiwi: This world is the site of large scale mining by Demand
   Minerals (a mining corporation based in Smoky Dawn). Some of the
   population was born here and consider themselves "native", but most
   are workers on tours of duty of a few years or so. The labour
   intensive work is done by machines or robots.
   
   There is also an installation here associated with the Talpaku Navy.
   It is generally believed that the site is some sort of communications
   or sensor base. The naval installation is TL 13 (hence the rating of
   the world), but the mining company facilities are only at TL 12. The
   company and the Navy each have separate type F spaceports.
   
   Bright Light Gamma: is a large gas giant with UWP size 125, diameter
   200,000 km, density 0.18, mass 687 standard. Orbital period 261
   standard days, axial tilt 39 degrees, eccentricity zero.
   
   Chakikzudev: is the home of independent miners, some spend years at a
   time here alone in a self-imposed exile. Many are fleeing some trauma
   in their personal lives; others are guilty of non-violent crimes and
   have accepted official exile to this world as an alternative to
   prison.
   
   Dalv: is a research station operated by a big Talpaku company (Keyodlo
   Investigations). It is based offworld for security and safety reasons
   (e.g. to isolate biological research). The company sometimes rents
   parts of its facilities to reputable companies and persons.
   
   The mining activity here is to supply the research station with raw
   materials, not for export.
   
   The spaceport itself can be used by anyone (and is sometimes visited
   by ships which merely refuel at the gas giant and move on). Special
   clearance is needed to visit the research station complex.
   
   Chukzadl: This world is also operated by the Talpaku Navy. Although
   security here is very tight, it is believed to include the yard where
   the few TL 13 ships in the Talpaku Navy were built. No civilian
   shipping may pass within 2 million km of the world, much less land on
   it (hence the absence of a civilian spaceport).
   




 History of the Talpaku 

   
The History of the Talpaku
    By Grant Sinclair
    Date: 18th June 1996
    
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The Talpaku have a civilisation that dates back for many thousands of
   years, but written records are more recent. Cave paintings and oral
   history give some information but the first reliable studies were,
   ironically, done by their great enemy, the Zhodani.
   
   The Talpaku obtained copies of these studies during a peaceful period
   some centuries ago. We lack a trained historian, so our sociologist,
   Jane Wilkins, presents a condensation of these and other events.
   
Talpaku Timeline

   -5120 Zhodani encounter Addaxur.
   -5100 Zhodani reach Talpakuhome system and observe Talpaku briefly
   -4700 Southern continent united for the first time, though only briefly.
         Reach TL 2.
   -4600 Southern continent balkanised again, but the times are relatively
         peaceful. TL 3 reached during this peaceful period.
   -4400 Eccentric technological genius takes society from late TL 3 to full
         TL 5 in one lifetime. Zhodani radio signals detected, reply sent.
   -4340 First manned space flight (to Kitilku).
   -4300 Reach TL 6. First permanent colony established on Kitilku. Probes
         sent to all worlds in home system.
   -4119 Competition for ownership of ore bodies through entire home system
         results in "Ore Wars". TL reaches 7 (early TL 8 in some cases) as
         competitors strive for advantage.
   -4114 Zhodani find projector device to be accurate and lose interest in
         Yiklerzdanzh expansion.
   -4091 End of Ore Wars.
   -4000 First Zhodani Core expedition.
   -3995 Xenophobia begins to unite the Talpaku against "unknown hostile
         aliens". Interstellar missions planned, space defenses against
         interstellar invasion begun.
   -3915 Full TL 8 (and TL 9 for space technology) reached. First
         interstellar colonisation ships launched. Steady, planned
         interstellar colonisation begins.
   -3000 Five systems now colonised (including home system). Founding of
         Talpaku interstellar state.
   -2700 Full TL 10 reached. Zhodani interdiction station discovered,
         automatic defences accidentally triggered. Increased xenophobia.
   -1792 Zhodani merchant ship wanders into a Talpaku system and is captured.
         Talpaku learn secret of the jump drive.
   -1750 Zhodani task force returns and is overwhelmed. Zhodani change tack
         and send scout ships to determine extent of Talpaku space.
   -1685 Zhodani return and symbolically occupy a single Talpaku system to
         prove a point. Talpaku retake system and invade Zhodani Consulate.
         War goes well initially but Talpaku driven out once Zhodani have
         fully mobilised. Indefinite ceasefire called.
   -1680 Zhodani begin making serious survey of Yiklerzdanzh. Meichntid Ibl
         contact Talpaku and explain things; Talpaku are distrustful but
         enter into an alliance.
   -1595 Execution of Zhodani ambassador for psionics use triggers Second
         Talpaku War.
   -1230 First Izrats Kriezhlas Unity "Talpaku Mission" fails
   -1000 Zhodani Consulate reaches present size.
    -900 Talpaku xenophobia finally begins to ebb and some diplomatic ties
         begin.
    -120 Second Izrats Kriezhlas Unity "Talpaku Mission" succeeds; large
         scale trade begins.
    1100 Talpaku achieve TL 13
    1160 S'raak War
    1195 Coreward/Trailing piracy and raids increase
    1201 Present Day
   
Talpaku Historical Notes

   Evolution: The Talpaku evolved from omnivore gatherers. Originally,
   their diet consisted mainly of roots and worms, but meat was an
   important secondary component. This was because meat contains
   important nutrients that were not easily found elsewhere.
   
   They originally lived in caves, which were extended and modified as
   needed. They mostly emerged in the periods around dawn and dusk,
   rather than the daytime, when fierce predators abounded. Later though,
   they found that they could defeat even the fiercest predators by
   banding together and using intelligent tactics.
   
   The highest status individuals in their early society were the
   firemakers. The high oxygen taint made bushfires common, so those who
   could make fire carefully and control it were highly valued
   individuals. Some worshipped fire, some feared it, others did both.
   Early kings had their "Thrones of Fire" and only the most significant
   people would have a "fire" reference in their names.
   
   The other main source of worship was the gas giant, Kitawhi, since it
   was a huge, stationary object in the sky that even eclipsed the sun
   from time to time. Even today, it still has some mystical
   significance, but on the same level that tarot cards and superstition
   has in Regency society.
   
   Zhodani visit: In about -5100, the Zhodani Consulate visited
   Talpakuhome. They were as interested in Kitilku as Talpakuhome and
   made only a short study of the Talpaku. By this time, they already had
   a rich culture, but were only early TL 1. The Zhodani considered them
   to be of less interest than other races they had encountered
   (particularly the Addaxur) and ignored them. Since the Zhodani
   observed the Talpaku from orbit and hidden locations, no legends of
   the visit persisted.
   
   First technological advances: By about -4700, different TL 2
   innovations had been made in different places. One central area,
   called the Kachakelv Hwho, had the benefit of limited trade with
   surrounding communities, and so was able to integrate the technologies
   learned to create a full TL 2 society. These were used to conquer the
   entire southern continent. In this time, widespread trade and exchange
   of ideas boosted the general tech level to 2, ironically giving local
   communities the ability to throw off the rule of the Kachakelv Hwho
   after only 75 years.
   
   The Age of Peace: Pre-unification lifestyle and culture were resumed
   for about 200 years, though the trade links set up were continued.
   This time was a period of great adventure, thanks to TL 2 transport
   technology that allowed great expeditions never before possible. This
   time is now romanticised.
   
   Kazka Eyes of Fire: In -4400, the great eccentric technological genius
   Kazka Eyes of Fire was born. Despite our conservative society, his
   genius took Talpaku society from late TL 3 to full TL 5 in one
   lifetime. In -4363, he detected strange radio signals now known to
   have been from the Zhodani Consulate, and transmitted replies. His
   group persuaded him to stop and the transmissions were kept secret
   (since they knew that the general public would find the news
   disturbing and they would get into trouble for replying). The secret
   came out slowly over a number of years, and was largely ignored by the
   populace.
   
   In -4340, he mounted the first Talpaku visit to another world:
   Kitilku. Although his expedition reached Kitilku successfully, he was
   unable to return due to sabotage from an anti-progress movement. Kazka
   Eyes of Fire died there soon after and is the first Talpaku to die
   offworld. His memorial on Kitilku is still visited by millions every
   year.
   
   Interplanetary period: In -4300, they had reached early TL 6 and
   established their first permanent colonies on Kitilku. They also sent
   probes to all worlds in their home system. A loose world government
   formed; this became dominated by anti-progressives within a few years.
   Under this government, further exploration of the planetary system
   slowed to a crawl and full TL 6 was not attained for another 100
   years.
   
   The Ore Wars: By -4119, the Talpaku had spent almost 200 years at TL
   6. All ore bodies on Talpakuhome that were readily accessible at TL 6
   were being exploited, so Kitilku (much richer in ore bodies readily
   accessible at TL 6) began to rival Talpakuhome as an industrial base.
   
   In order to find alternatives to increasingly limited natural
   resources, Talpaku companies were forced to expand into space.
   Competition for the best mine sites soon exploded into open war, which
   was initially ignored by the (secretly pleased) anti-progress
   dominated government. In order to prevail, companies were forced to
   sponsor illegal research projects, which produced a black-market tech
   level of 7. By the time the government attempted to curtail space
   activities, it was no longer in a position to enforce its dictates.
   
   The Ore Wars were officially concluded in about -4091, by which time
   the black market tech level had reached full TL 7 and (in some cases)
   early TL 8. There was some turmoil in society as the anti-progressives
   in government lost favour, but the R&D drive slowed as available
   resources filled demand. Democratic reforms were forced on the
   government structure.
   
   Under moderates in government, the next 50 years were spent
   consolidating the prototype innovations of the Ore Wars and organising
   interplanetary settlements, rather than driving on to higher tech
   levels still.
   
   In -3995, a Conclave of scientists on Talpakuhome decided that any
   reply to their interstellar transmissions would have been received by
   that time. They wondered why none had, in fact, been received.
   Speculation mounted, and xenophobia began to show itself for the first
   time. Fear united the Talpaku against the unknown hostile aliens who
   were probably forming an invasion force Right Now. Interstellar
   missions were planned, space defenses against interstellar invasion
   were begun. The consequent slow but steady research into space
   technology had spinoffs which increase general tech level.
   
   Interstellar period: The first serious interstellar probe was launched
   in -3915, using prototype TL 9 space technology (general TL was only
   8). When cryogenic suspension became possible soon after (as Talpaku
   metabolisms are more suited to this than humaniti) they decided to
   launch manned probes immediately, rather than wait for the probes to
   reach their targets. Surrounding worlds were found to be devoid of
   hostile aliens and colonisation began.
   
   By -3000, the surrounding worlds of Bayou, Gale, Shallowwater and
   Haven had been colonised and full TL 9 had been reached. The political
   system had also evolved to the point where the new systems were no
   longer colony worlds, so the Talpaku interstellar state was founded
   and the existing logo was adopted. Xenophobia slowly reduced after 900
   years of peaceful, slow expansion and prosperity.
   
   In -2700 (by which time they had reached full TL 10) a survey team
   explored the Fantasia system (0524) and discovered an unmanned Zhodani
   interdiction satellite (actually intended for the Meichntid Ibl). They
   accidentally triggered automatic defences and most were killed
   immediately. The rest survived long enough to send a distress signal
   back to Gale and Talpaku returned in force, to destroy the satellite.
   Analysis of the remains led to several scientific advances and
   xenophobia increased again.
   
   By -2400, improved technology revolutionised space travel and
   interstellar trade became feasible for even small companies.
   
   Zhodani contact: In -1792, the captain of a type ZM Zhodani Trader
   decided to vary his normal route to the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity (see
   TTC 9), in the hope of a chance find. The ship stopped at Plenty
   (knowing from the original survey that refuelling was possible there)
   and discovered that the system was now inhabited.
   
   The ship's boat was sent to observe the mainworld but Talpaku thought
   it was another armed artefact and destroyed it. Deciding that
   surrender was futile, the Zhodani decided that a sneak night
   refuelling mission was their only chance. They reached the mainworld
   (thanks to good piloting and some creative use of radio transmitters
   as false targets) and were able to conceal themselves underwater for
   long enough to refuel, but the ship was shot down when it attempted to
   escape.
   
   The ship was recovered and a number of the crew were captured. The
   crew were initially unresponsive, but after the Talpaku ate one of the
   dead ones (just to see what they tasted like) they suddenly became
   much more cooperative. From interrogation of the crew and analysis of
   the ship, they were able to learn the Zhodani language and the secret
   of the jump drive. They did not find out about the Zhodani psionic
   ability, nor that one of the crew could teleport.
   
   In the following few years, the Talpaku were able to duplicate the
   jump drive. Their industrial capacity was sufficient to construct many
   jump drives very quickly, and the Communality was transformed. Some
   STL ships which had left before the Zhodani visit were beaten to their
   destinations by the new jump capable ships. Knowing from experience
   that the Zhodani were technologically advanced and clever, they
   started construction of a jump capable navy immediately.
   
   In this period, when the jump drive was being distributed
   indiscriminately, the Zhodani took their chance. Playing their psionic
   trump card, they were able to hijack a jump capable ship and return to
   the Consulate.
   
   The crew alerted Zhodani military forces, who were horrified by the
   talk of Zhodani eaters with jump drive. They despatched a punitive
   task force but had underestimated the Talpaku industrial capability
   and the task force was overwhelmed by sheer force of numbers.
   
   Rather than retry a failed tactic, the Zhodani sent scouts to
   determine extent of Talpaku space. The Talpaku used this time to
   analyse captured ships, learning more about weapons technology and
   military starship design.
   
   Zhodani Conflict: In -1685, the Zhodani decided to make a point about
   who is boss and invaded Fantasia. Their greater combat experience and
   better technology gave them a quick victory. They hoped that this
   would put the Talpaku "in their place" without sparing too many
   resources from other areas, but they instead triggered the Talpaku
   possession instinct.
   
   The Talpaku assembled a task force of their own and retook Fantasia.
   Feeling that the time had come for the great battle against their
   Enemy, they continued onward, seriously intending to conquer the
   Zhodani Consulate (being unaware of its size).
   
   The war went well for the Talpaku initially, since no state the size
   of the Zhodani Consulate expects to be invaded by a state the size of
   the Talpaku Communality. The Zhodani refused their terms (i.e.
   unconditional surrender of the entire Zhodani Consulate) and began
   getting serious. Better technology and creative use of psionic talents
   stemmed the invasion and drove the Talpaku back to their own space.
   The Zhodani drive then stalled, for every system the Talpaku had was
   bristling with hidden defences, and the death toll affected public
   support of the war on both sides. When the Meichntid Ibl took
   advantage of the war to regain some of their own systems, a cease fire
   was called. The Zhodani "allowed" the Talpaku to keep Fantasia since
   it was more trouble than it was worth. There was no official end to
   the war, just an indefinite ceasefire based on antebellum borders.
   
   It took until -1680 for the Meichntid Ibl to convince the Talpaku that
   they were a separate state to the Zhodani. Despite a level of
   distrust, an alliance was formed that has lasted until the present
   day. Some speculate that if the alliance had been formed during the
   war, rather than after it, the Zhodani would have been thrown back
   much further.
   
   Although the Talpaku will not admit it, the war left the Communality
   exhausted. The Zhodani sacked many systems, gaining revenge for the
   same fate inflicted by the Talpaku on Zhodani systems, earlier in the
   war.
   
   The Second Talpaku War: In -1595, a senior Zhodani diplomat named
   Fitsiavlatl was found to have used psionics and executed. This led to
   war, which the Talpaku call the Fitsiavlatl War, but the Zhodani and
   everyone else calls the Second Talpaku War.
   
   The war lasted about a year and was inconclusive, leading to major
   ship losses on both sides but with no territory taken. In fact, both
   sides expanded slightly to support the war effort; the Talpaku
   colonised Chaos Fallen to supply their shipyards and the Zhodani
   advanced a little closer to the Talpaku. The main loser was the
   Meichntid Ibl, which was caught by surprise by the sudden onset war
   (in fact, finding out about the war they were suddenly involved in
   after the Zhodani did). The peace treaty led to the creation of a
   demilitarised zone between the Talpaku Communality and the Zhodani
   Consulate.
   
   Post war relations with Zhodani: After the war, the Zhodani changed
   their strategy. Being more interested in coreward expansion anyway,
   they decided to defend their own borders and wait for the Talpaku
   state to collapse, as most minor races eventually do. Unflattering
   public perceptions of the Talpaku were formed in the Zhodani Consulate
   at this time and these remain commonplace.
   
   Meanwhile, defenses were rebuilt, waiting for another invasion that
   never came. Their experiences in the two major wars made it obvious
   that to the Talpaku that they could never invade the Consulate
   successfully, and so their military forces were oriented to defense.
   There was little advancement in TL for the next thousand years, since
   resources were spent on repairing damage and occasional brushfire
   wars, in the hope that the Zhodani could be lured into a trap. The
   largest of these was around -1300, when the Talpaku executed several
   Zhodani citizens (not officials) over psionic incidents.
   
   The Talpaku maintained their alliance with the Meichntid Ibl, knowing
   that only in this alliance could the Zhodani be seriously threatened.
   
   Hostilities ebb at last: By about -900, the Talpaku finally noticed
   that the Zhodani were not attacking them. Xenophobia began to ebb and
   some diplomatic ties began. Zhodani reckon "maturing" of the Talpaku
   from this date. In -120, large scale trade began with the Izrats
   Kriezhlas Unity.
   
   Imperial Contact: Official Imperial contact occurred in early 1061,
   with IISS vessels involved in a class I survey of the sector for
   Second Survey. Though contact was brief, it did allow the Talpaku to
   send an official message to the then Emperor (Paulo III).
   
   It was at this time that the Imperial name for the Talpaku originated.
   The first scout contained people of both Solomani and Vilani descent;
   the Solomani thought they looked like moles ("talpa", in Latin) while
   the Vilani thought they looked like ilaku (an animal of Vland of
   similar appearance, though much smaller in size). A compromise was
   reached that named the race from elements of each word.
   
   The Rebellion and the Hard Times that followed prevented further
   contact.
   
   S'raak War: In the early 1100's, the S'raak (from Khaar, Yiklerzdanzh
   0221) had secretly been the subject of military and other aid from the
   surrounding powers. In 1160, they attacked all sides in an attempt to
   carve out an interstellar state of their own. The S'raak were largely
   held off, though they were able to claim most of the demilitarised
   zone for themselves. In the course of the war, the S'raak attacked
   most of the coreward worlds of the Communality. Following the war, the
   Talpaku Communality formally incorporated Pieflip (0323) and Twinstar
   (0826).
   
   Regency contact: In 1191, as part of the resumption of interest by the
   Regency in matters spinward, a small Regency consulate was established
   on Talpakuhome. This was upgraded to embassy status (though not size)
   in 1196. Certain MegaCorporations (particularly Ling Standard
   Products) have also showed some interest, more in the hope of selling
   knowledge than actual goods.
   
   Coreward/Trailing Piracy increases: From about 1195, the amount of
   piracy increased in systems nearby to trailing and to rimward of the
   Communality, and then within the core/trailing systems of the
   Communality itself. Only two ships have been captured, though some
   others were destroyed or chose to blow themselves up instead. Some of
   the pirates turned out to be S'raak, but the S'raak Empire hotly
   denied rumours of letters of marque or any other connection with the
   pirates. In late 1199, the first attack on an installation in a star
   system occurred (an outlying planet of Takiwhibl), followed in early
   1200 by a similar raid in the Fantasia system.
   
   Present Day: Tensions with the Zhodani have again increased, over
   protests concerning the Pieflip system (Yiklerzdanzh 0323). Relations
   can be described as "cool" at best.
   
   Rumours have started that the pirates are using high tech equipment,
   source unknown, that can defeat the lower tech Talpaku sensors. It is
   also said that this explains the recent exchange program with the
   Meichntid Ibl, where several ships from that state have been added to
   Talpaku patrols.
   
   Increasing cynicism is felt by most Talpaku towards their government.
   The government handled the S'raak badly (giving the S'raak weapons
   which were later used against them), handled the negotiations over the
   system of Pieflip badly and have so far been unable to stop the
   increase in piracy and raids to core/trailing. Public relations
   campaigns are being run to reverse this, though so far without effect.
   There is serious discussion of major reform and even of secession. In
   short, the Communality is currently in the most fragile state it has
   ever been. Only time will tell whether this is reversed or
   accelerates.





 Talpaku Communality 

Talpaku Communality
    By Grant Sinclair
    Date: 18th June 1996
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The Talpaku Communality has been in existence since about -3000. It is
   a tightly knit interstellar state, showing much less variation than
   human states, such as the Imperium. Chiblgewhekh Climber-of-Mountains,
   Foreign Minister of the Talpaku Communality, has personally written
   this description of the Communality.
   
   Communality Structure: Our Communality is a relatively loose structure
   of individual world governments. The Communality is responsible for
   Foreign Policy, Defense, Law, Culture and Trade; individual worlds are
   responsible for other matters. We Talpaku are bonded more by cultural
   things than laws.
   
   The executive level of the Communality Government is comprised of two
   representatives of each significant system (those with a total system
   population of about 134 million or more) and one representative of
   each of the remaining systems. These representatives select a
   Moderator from among their number (who controls debates and votes only
   to break deadlocks). The system which supplies the Moderator then
   selects an additional representative as a replacement. Individual
   systems select their representatives as they see fit.
   
   Referee: Government types 3, D, E and F are not found in Talpaku
   space. The exact population required for "significant system" status
   is 134,217,728 (8 to the ninth power).
   
   System Governments: The Communality establishes basic levels of
   individual sophont rights, but world populations are otherwise free to
   administer themselves as they see fit. Any government form which is
   acceptable to the citizenry is allowed, and the Communality will step
   in if coercion is discovered. Under Communality Law, a referendum must
   be called to test that acceptance, upon presentation of a petition
   signed by 1% of the population. This is rare.
   
   Law Levels are lower than in human space. Individual sophont rights
   established under overriding Communality law means that law levels
   must be in the range of 0 to 9. Note that even at law level 0, poison
   gas and similar weapons of mass destruction are banned (e.g.
   bacteriological, nuclear, fuel-air). A law level of 1 applies to
   Communality Space not within the jurisdiction of system governments.
   
   Referee: A DM of -2 should be applied to law level rolls. When
   determining Legal Profile using the World Builder's Handbook, use the
   general law level as a base rather than government code, and always
   set the weapons law level equal to the general law level.
   
   Symbol: The symbol of our Communality is a circle drawn with a thick,
   black line (representing space), surmounted by five five-pointed stars
   at the points of an imaginary pentagon (which represent the five
   colonised stellar systems when our interstellar state was founded,
   i.e. Talpakuhome, Gale, Bayou, Shallowwater and Haven). There was talk
   of adding stars as other systems were colonised, but it just didn't
   happen.
   
   Foreign Policy: The best word to describe our attitude towards the
   Zhodani is "suspicion". Trade exists, particularly through third
   parties or on neutral ground, but not in strategic technologies.
   
   Relations with the Meichntid Ibl are much better, though the only
   thing we really have in common is our common enemy (the Zhodani).
   There is considerable trade, mostly along the jump-2 route slightly to
   trailing of our borders. We do not use surplus Meichntid Ibl warships
   in our Navy, as might be expected, since we do not have the
   technological capacity to maintain them. It is also true that the
   Meichntid Ibl consider us to be the "junior partner" in our alliance,
   and many there do not think highly enough of us to trust us with their
   most potent weapons. The Zhodani have played on the inherently weak
   nature of alliance in the past, attempting to break the alliance, but
   we have always seen through these attempts eventually.
   
   Relations with the Carillon Harmonies are more neutral. We prefer to
   understand the people we deal with, at least to some extent, but these
   strange creatures have always baffled us. We fear their abilities,
   against which we have no defense, but are also aware that they have
   never showed aggression towards us. It is hoped that now that some
   nearby worlds are inhabited by both of our races, a better
   understanding will develop between us.
   
   The Izrats Kriezhlas Unity is the only state with which relations have
   varied over the years. The warmer their relations with the Zhodani,
   the colder their relations with us.
   
   We have no formal relations with the S'raak or the more distant,
   states in the sector. We hope that our current tentative contact with
   the Regency will result in technological and other assistance.
   
   Trade codes: Talpaku worlds are Rich only if atmosphere is type 7 or 9
   with same taint as Talpakuhome.
   
   Communications Network: There is no equivalent of the Regency express
   boat network. There are instead several companies which run jump-3
   manoeuvre-1 Kzit class couriers around the major worlds (those which
   are high population or starport A) - these routes are shown on the
   subsector maps. At least one courier (and usually more) will leave
   each of these worlds every day.
   
   The courier companies have offices on all these major worlds. They
   also have agreements or contracts with other shipping, so anyone on
   any world can send a message to any other world in the Communality
   with a single payment. The network is such that all worlds (except the
   prison world of Exile) are within jump-2 of a major world, so
   information crosses the Communality fairly quickly.
   
   The Kzit class couriers are 100 ton vessels that cost MCr 24.294 (less
   than that of an Regency x-boat). Many of the couriers are stock
   standard (i.e. all cargo space devoted to databanks for messages), but
   others have a mix of databanks and a cargo space provision for smaller
   packages. These couriers are the equivalent of the aircraft which
   provide overnight courier services between cities of 20th Century
   Terra; they carry mail at rates equivalent to Regency xboat costs, or
   small packages at 5 times normal starship freight cost. Governments
   and corporations also use these couriers (sometimes encrypting the
   messages), though the biggest have couriers of their own.
   
   The recent development of TL 13 technology has allowed our Navy to
   upgrade its own couriers to jump-4. These are attached to fleets in
   wartime and are used to ferry military and intelligence material as
   required (usually, from naval base to another). Some of the older TL
   12 (jump-3) designs were sold off to private industry, and are
   included in the ranks of the courier companies described above.
   
   Merchant Princes: Many Free Traders, Interface Lines and small
   companies are actually a takh. Larger lines are either run by a
   partnership of takh, or else as conventional companies, with
   shareholders and employees. In the brief notes concerning sample
   Merchant Lines that follow, Galanglic translations of the names are
   used where possible.
   
   Free as Air Trading (Interface Line; Home Port: Bayou). This is
   typical of many companies that trade from our trailing worlds along
   the jump-2 trade route up to the Meichntid Ibl and the Zhodani
   Consulate beyond it. The line rarely visits Forday's Fortune or the
   Carillon. This merchant line is wholly owned by a single takh, the
   members of which form the permanent employees of the line. Other
   employees are hired on a contract basis, the contracts lasting for
   periods as short as 1 jump to as long as 1 year, or for indefinite
   amounts of time, like 1 circuit of the route. These contract employees
   are commonly from races other than our own, partly because of the
   system the ship was in at the time a new employee was needed, and
   partly because the interface nature of the line makes a mixed crew
   valuable. Free as Air Trading has recently acquired a 1000 ton ship,
   but most vessels are 400 tons or less. The growth of the line has led
   it to the point where a single takh has difficulty managing
   operations, and so it is likely to split or else enter into a
   partnership or become a company. Deliberation over this matter has
   been sidelined due to mourning, following the recent loss of a 400 ton
   vessel to piracy.
   
   Night Mist Line (Interface Line; Home Port: Talpakuhome). This line is
   a partnership of three takh, operating 1000 ton jump-2 ships from
   Talpakuhome to Carillon. The partnership finds trade along this set
   route (visiting Bayou, Heaven's Scent and Forday's Fortune along the
   way) to be sufficiently profitable that it rarely strays from this
   path. The regularity of the line has enabled it to enter into shipping
   contracts with companies on the worlds of its route. The business
   contacts built up by this sometimes allow the line to find markets
   where others cannot, so it is not uncommon for them to buy goods from
   other trading vessels they encounter (particularly at the starport of
   Forday's Fortune). This policy occasionally backfires.
   
   Rambling Kziwhawhuv (Free Trader; Home Port: Gale). This rather old
   400 ton jump-2 vessel can be found anywhere in or near the
   Communality. The small takh which operates it is unusually
   multi-skilled, and they supplement the income from trading and
   passenger services by putting on shows at the pubs of the worlds they
   visit. They are an excellent (if unconventional) ship to travel with,
   since they like to try out their new material on their passengers, and
   chat to them for ideas for future shows. They are gregarious even by
   our standards, and will sometimes delay leaving a world if they are
   short of their full complement of passengers. Fortunately, their
   interpersonal skills mean that this is rarely necessary.
   




 Talpaku Vehicles 

   
Talpaku Vehicles
    By Grant Sinclair
    Date: 1st January 1997
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   This description of Talpaku craft was written by Whakipl Measured
   Pace, a sales executive for the largest Talpaku vehicle company,
   Kiplkhewhawhe.
   
Contents

    1. Introduction
    2. Starships
          + Katwha Type A Free Trader
          + Kzodazdak Type A2 Free Trader
          + Zdayok Type A2 Free Trader
          + Hwhibuhwha Type J Interplanetary Seeker
          + Tetukov Type PW Mining Habitat
    3. Vehicles
          + Kuzda Air/Raft
    4. Robots
          + Yatikiki Biological Sampler Robot
            
Introduction

   Our long technological history has been intermittent, driven by
   different factors at different times. It also reflects the long period
   of isolation that has ended only in the last 900 years. The result are
   technologies that are sophisticated, but often not very compatible
   with equivalents developed by other cultures. This means that many of
   our items can only be repaired on their own worlds. The main
   exceptions are the jump drive and certain other starship related
   technologies, since these were obtained from the Zhodani and follow
   Zhodani design principles.
   
   About 80% of our existing military and civilian starships, vehicles
   and robots range from TL 11-12. The remaining 20% of civilian designs
   are pre TL 11, though TL 13 designs have reached the mass production
   stage in the last few years. The remaining 20% of military designs are
   split 15% pre TL 11 and 5% TL 13 designs. In all cases, power plants
   can be one TL higher than the rest of the design, thanks to our
   proficiency in this area.
   
Starships

   Civilian starships range from 100 tons to about 25000 tons. A handful
   of larger ships exists in private hands, but the occasional needs for
   huge vessels are satisfied only by leasing military transports.
   
   Military starships range from 100 tons to 100,000 tons. We prefer to
   have greater numbers of smaller craft than small numbers of huge
   craft. We use planetoids of all sizes for system defense; many are
   just hollowed out planetoids armed with missile launchers and without
   even a manoeuvre drive.
   
   A few military non-starships (buffered planetoid designs) exist that
   are larger than 100,000 tons.
   
   Both military and civilian designs are long and angular, following the
   original Zhodani influence. Interior design is also similar to Zhodani
   design, except for living quarters; these are open space, with
   communal sleeping quarters. There are some small cubicles for study
   and meditation. The total space used for accommodation is the same as
   human designs.
   
   Outside the Communality, weapons are powered down only for the first 5
   days in jump space or when in starports felt to be particularly safe.
   Within the Communality, weapons are powered down permanently. We do
   not venture outside the Communality with weapons powered down, as we
   fear that even the short time to warm start could be our undoing. We
   have no particular preference for battle power plants, but it is
   sometimes necessary when more power is needed and there is
   insufficient space in the power plant room to install a larger power
   plant.
   
  Katwha Type A Free Trader
  
   Craft ID:Talpaku Katwha Free Trader, Type A, TL 12, MCr 36.781
   (including 20% discount) Hull:180/450, Disp=200, Config=1SL,
   Armour=40F, Unloaded=1546 tons, Loaded=2719 tons Power:4/8,
   Fusion=495Mw (TL 13), Duration=30/90 Loco:4/8, Maneuver-1, 4/8,
   Jump-1, NOE=160 kph, Cruise=750 kph, Top=1000 kph, Agility=0
   Commo:Radio=System Sensors:EMS Passive=Interstellar, EMS Active=Far
   Orbit, ActObjScan=Rout, ActObjPin=Rout, PasEngScan=Rout
   Off/Def:Hardpoints=2, DefDM=+2 Control:Computer=1x3, Panel=Dyn Link x
   331, Special=HeadsUpx3, Environ=Basic Env, Basic LS, Extended LS, Grav
   Plates, Inertial Comp Accom:Crew=4 (Bridge=2, Engineer=1, Steward=1),
   "Staterooms"=10, LowBerths=6, HighPsg=4, MidPsg=2, LowPsg=6
   Other:Cargo=1140 kl, Fuel=468 kl, PurificationPlant (14 hours),
   ObjSize=Average, EmLevel=Faint
   
   The Katwha class Free Trader is designed to carry cargo and passengers
   from one end of the Communality to the other. Most owners do not
   bother with weapons (since piracy is rare and resistance of military
   vessels is futile), though some add sandcaster or missile turrets.
   Some spare space has been allocated to the bridge to allow for control
   panel units for any weapons which may later be added. Double occupancy
   of crew is not required unless gunners are present.
   
   Energy weapons are harder to install, for there is far less spare
   power for even a single laser turret. It is not possible to enlarge
   the existing power plant, so it is necessary to convert the low berth
   room or some cargo space into an auxiliary power plant room.
   
   There is a cargo-only variant of the Katwha which has only three
   staterooms, no low berths, no steward, cargo 1599 kl, loaded weight
   3178 tons and discounted cost MCr 34.301.
   
   All Katwha class vessels have names starting with a "K".
   
  Kzodazdak Type A2 Free Trader
   
   The Kzodazdak class Far Trader is mainly used to carry cargo and
   passengers within the Communality, though it is also used to trade
   with the Zhodani Consulate and the Meichntid Ibl. It differs from the
   Katwha in that it has jump-2, 368 dynamically linked panels, 8
   staterooms, Purification Plant (22 hours), 950 kl cargo, loaded weight
   1914.265 tons, discounted cost MCr 40.99.
   
   The cargo-only variant of the Kzodazdak has three staterooms, no low
   berths, no steward, cargo 1302 kl, loaded weight 2263.265 tons and
   discounted cost MCr 39.153.
   
   All Kzodazdak class vessels have names starting with a "Kz".
   
  Zdayok Type A2 Free Trader
  
   Craft ID:Talpaku Zdayok Trader, Type A2, TL 12, MCr 89.2 (including
   20% discount) Hull:360/900, Disp=400, Config=1SL, Armour=40F,
   Unloaded=3022 tons, Loaded=6177 tons Power:11/22, Fusion=1485 Mw (TL
   13), Duration=30/90 Loco:8/16, Maneuver-1, 11/22, Jump-2, NOE=160 kph,
   Cruise=750 kph, Top=1000 kph, Agility=0 Commo:Radio=System Sensors:EMS
   Passive=Interstellar, EMS Active=Far Orbit, ActObjScan=Rout,
   ActObjPin=Rout, PasEngScan=Rout Off/Def:Hardpoints=4, BeamLaser= x02
   (Batt 001, Bear 001), Missiles= x02 (Batt 001, Bear 001) Def:DefDM=+3
   Control:Computer=1x3, Panel=Dyn Link x 691, Special=HeadsUpx3,
   Environ=Basic Env, Basic LS, Extended LS, Grav Plates, Inertial Comp
   Accom:Crew=5 (Bridge=2, Engineer=1, Gunners=2), "Staterooms"=4,
   LowBerths=6 Other:Cargo=3117 kl, Fuel=936 kl, PurificationPlant (22.5
   hours), HE Missile magazine=12, ObjSize=Average, EmLevel=Faint
   
   The Zdayok class Trader is mainly used for trade outside the
   Communality. It is sometimes found in the hands of a single-ship small
   company, but is usually owned and operated by a takh or small company
   which owns several ships.
   
   There are two spare hardpoints, so extra weapons can be installed if
   desired. To do this, the low berth room or some cargo space must be
   converted into an auxiliary power plant room. Spare space has been
   allocated to the bridge to allow for the associated extra control
   panel units. The extra two gunners can be accommodated by everyone
   being in double occupancy.
   
   All Zdayok class vessels have names starting with "Zd".
   
  Hwhibuhwha Type J Interplanetary Seeker
   
   Craft ID:Talpaku Hwhibuhwha Seeker, Type J, TL 12, MCr 15 (including
   20% discount) Hull:63/158, Disp=70, Config=2SL, Armour=40F,
   Unloaded=580 tons, Loaded=1156 tons Power:3/6, Fusion=414 Mw (TL 13),
   Duration=60/180 Loco:1/2, Maneuver-1, NOE=n/a, Cruise=750 kph,
   Top=1000 kph, Vacuum=1200, Agility=0/2* Commo:Radio=Far Orbit
   Sensors:EMS Passive=Interplanetary, EMS Active=Far Orbit, Densitometer
   High Pen/50m, 2 heavy robotic arms, ActObjScan=Rout, ActObjPin=Rout,
   PasObjScan=Diff, PasObjPin=Diff, PasEngScan=Rout Off/Def:Hardpoints=1,
   PulseLaser=x01 (Batt 001, Bear 001) Def:DefDM=+2/+3*
   Control:Computer=0/bisx3, Panel=Dyn Link x70,
   Special=LargeHoloDisplay, Environ=Basic Env, Basic LS, Extended LS,
   Grav Plates, Inertial Comp, Air Lock Accom:Crew=1 (Bridge=1),
   "Staterooms"=1 Other:Cargo=564.7 kl, Fuel=163.2 kl, ObjSize=Average,
   EmLevel=Faint
   
   The Hwhibuhwha class Interplanetary Seeker is often found in systems
   with rich belts that can sustain a permanent belter population (and so
   vessels do not need a jump drive). The pulse laser is used only for
   carving up planetoids, so the power plant is powered down most of the
   time (the duration stated provides for 240 hours use of the laser).
   Stats marked with a * are affected by power plant status (e.g. agility
   0 when powered up, 2 when powered down). Obviously, the laser can be
   used for combat purposes when necessary.
   
   Although the craft can be operated by a single person, a crew of 2 is
   more usual. This prevents loneliness and makes it more feasible that
   the necessary skills are well represented. Occasionally, these craft
   are found with a crew of 4, with each person specialising in some
   required skill and allowing 24 hour operation of the prospecting
   mission.
   
   When used with a Tetukuv mining habitat, these craft have scoops
   added.
   
  Tetukov Type PW Mining Habitat
   
   Craft ID:Talpaku Tetukov Seeker, Type PW, TL 12, MCr 76.865 (including
   20% discount) Hull:540/1350, Disp=600, Config=8USL, Armour=45,
   Unloaded=3942 tons, Loaded=5691 tons Power:8/16, Fusion=1080 Mw (TL
   13), Duration=30 Loco:11/22, Maneuver-1, NOE=n/a, Cruise=750 kph,
   Top=1000 kph, Vacuum=1200, Agility=0 Commo:Radio=Far Orbitx2
   Sensors:EMS Passive=Interplanetary, EMS Active=Far Orbit, 4 heavy
   robotic arms, ActObjScan=Rout, ActObjPin=Rout, PasEngScan=Rout
   Off/Def:Hardpoints=6 Def:DefDM=+1 Control:Computer=0/bisx3, Panel=Dyn
   Link x714, Special=LargeHoloDisplayx2, Environ=Basic Env, Basic LS,
   Extended LS, Grav Plates, Inertial Comp, Air Lockx4 Accom:Crew=4
   (Bridge=2, Engineering=1, Medic=1), "Staterooms"=45, "MidPsg"=56,
   EmergLowBerth, SubCraft=Interplanetary Seekersx2 Other:Cargo=1719 kl,
   Fuel=432 kl, Purification Plant (51.8 hours), ObjSize=Average,
   EmLevel=Moderate/Faint (powered up/down)
   
   The Tetukov class mining habitat is mostly used by communes which wish
   to live in a planetoid belt, living a belter lifestyle. It is also
   used by larger companies.
   
   The duration assumes that the manoeuvre drive is used for only 5 days
   (i.e. to travel to and from the planetoid belt and otherwise used only
   for occasional orbital adjustments). The duration can be extended
   indefinitely if one of the carried subcraft (c.f. Hwhibuhwha class
   Interplanetary Seeker) is fitted with scoops and is sent on occasional
   missions to a gas giant to gather fuel (purification is done upon
   return).
   
   The craft needs only 4 crew but allows for a permanent population of
   60 Talpaku. The 45 "Staterooms" represent space for immediate living
   quarters and also areas needed for residents of all ages (e.g. general
   entertainment, education, fitness and medical facilities). One of the
   spare computers is used for entertainment and education unless needed
   by an emergency.
   
   The robotic arms are used in the cargo bay. The emergency low berth is
   for medical use. No provision for environment controls are made in the
   cargo, fuel and subcraft areas (not even grav plates). The air locks
   are used for access to the cargo bay (1), the subcraft (2) and the
   outside (1).
   
   There is a variant of this craft without a manoeuvre drive. These are
   bases, rather than craft, and must be moved by a tug or similar
   vessel.
   
   The Talpaku Communality stations military bases in belts which
   superficially resemble these habitats. The military bases are armed
   with missiles, energy weapons and/or fighters and are used for
   surprise attacks during invasions by such external threats as the
   Zhodani. Power plants are powered down to resemble the profile of a
   real Tetukov mining habitat and only a Passive Object Pinpoint from a
   densitometer will reveal the true nature of the craft. The minimum
   size of a prospecting claim is far greater than the maximum range of a
   densitometer, so the stations are normally safe from such detection.
   If a civilian craft does close to TL 15 densitometer range of a
   station, some crews will fire to protect their secret, even though
   this is technically against orders. It should be noted that an
   advantage of contact with the Imperium was that the Talpaku now know
   the ranges of many Zhodani sensors.
   
   It is sometimes said that trigger-happy prospectors who attack those
   who intrude on their claim space are not prosecuted as strongly as
   they should. This allows the military to cover up the occasional
   shooting by claiming that the victim was actually attacked by a
   trigger-happy civilian and it was not them at all.
   
Vehicles

   Vehicles are prolific in our decentralised society. All vehicles
   include computers, providing such features as navigational assistance,
   proximity alerts and cruise control at a minimum. All airborne
   vehicles can be controlled remotely, by the owner or by a traffic
   control computer.
   
   In the larger settlements of some worlds (e.g. Talpakuhome), traffic
   density makes central traffic control the only safe option. Most of us
   prefer traffic control computers anyway, since this allows us to
   concentrate on conversations with other passengers, listening to
   music, doing hobbies or work, or putting our makeup on.
   
   Vehicle design is similar to that of humans, but there are some
   differences:
     * Accommodation need be doubled only if journeys of more than 9
       hours are expected.
     * Extended accommodations need only be provided if journeys of more
       than 9 hours are expected.
     * Civilian vehicles usually have "adequate" or "roomy" interiors,
       since this better allows the occupants to amuse themselves on
       journeys.
     * Basic life support is common in vehicle designs intended for the
       whole Communality, since only two of our worlds have breathable
       atmospheres. This allows us to remove compressors and filters for
       journeys.
     * Robot brains are often found in "deluxe" versions of longer-range
       vehicles, though these are only about skill level 1 or 2 and
       cannot handle extreme terrain or weather conditions.
       
  Kuzda Air/Raft
  
   Craft ID:Talpaku Kuzda Air/Raft, TL 12, Cr 713,085 Hull:2/5, Disp=2,
   Config=1SL, Armour=4F, Unloaded=6.3 tons, Loaded=6.8 tons Power:1/2,
   Fusion=2Mw (TL 13), Duration=15/45 Loco:1/2, Low Power H-Grav,
   Thrust=12 tons, NOE=160 kph, Cruise=675 kph, Top=900 kph,
   MaxAccel=0.75G Commo:Radio=Continental(5000km) Sensors:All Weather
   Radar=VDist (50 km), Synthetic Vision, ActObjScan=Diff, ActObjPin=Diff
   Off/Def:None Control:Computer=0x2, Dyn Link Accom:Crew=1 (operator),
   Seats=Roomyx5, Adequatex1, Env=Basic Env, Ext ls, inertial comp
   Other:Fuel=1.8 kl, Cargo=.442 kl, ObjSize=Small, EmLevel=Faint,
   LtRobotArmx2
   
   The Kuzda air/raft is a typical vehicle owned by those who live in
   outlying communities but must commute to larger settlements on a
   regular basis. Although the design assumes routine journeys will not
   exceed 9 hours, the speed of the vehicle makes most destinations
   accessible in this time. Due to the cost, this vehicle is sometimes
   purchased by a commune rather than an individual.
   
   Extended life support is provided for convenience and also to allow
   the owner the option of using the vehicle for journeys of more than 9
   hours (this has no effect on performance except to reduce the maximum
   number of passengers).
   
   The first robot arm is in the cargo compartment and loads baggage. The
   second is in the cabin and performs basic steward functions.
   
   In deluxe models, such as those produced by my own company
   Kiplkhewhawhe, a robot brain replaces the primary computer: CPU=11
   linear, 10 parallel, 1 synaptic, Storage=30 standard, FundLogic=Low
   Autonomous, FundCmd=Full Command, Software=Grav Vehicle-1, Steward-1.
   Extra cost Cr 108,700.
   
Robots

   Robots have normally been used to replace manual labour rather than
   tasks involving intelligence; this tendency has increased, thanks to
   Virus. For efficiency, manual worker robots are found in groups, where
   one is a master robot and the rest are brainless slave robots. The
   master robot itself can be controlled remotely by radio.
   
   When a robot has need for "cargo space" (to carry tools, ore samples
   or the like), we instinctively place it in the lower torso, rather
   like a pouch.
   
   Robots are open-frame unless the environment in which they work makes
   enclosure necessary (as is the case with the sampler robot below).
   Unlike human society, open frame robots are quite acceptable (and
   cheaper, too!). Their owners sometimes like the incongruity of an open
   frame robot adorned with a feathered cap or scarf.
   
   We have no need to anthropomorphise our robots and would not bother
   with pseudo-biological types, even if we could build them.
   
  Yatikiki Biological Sampler Robot
  
   RobotID:Talpaku Yatikiki Biological Sampler Robot, TL 12, Cr 246,925,
   UPP LAx54x (Strength L=20) Hull:14/35, Size=350 litres, Config=2,
   Armour=2A, Weight=300 kg Power:5/10,FuelCell=75 kw (TL 13),
   Duration=180 hours Loco:1/2, 2 legs, Speed=3
   Commo:Radio=Regional(500km) Sensors:Visualx2 (with light intensifier
   and passive IR), Touchx2 (extra sensitivity), Olfactory (extra
   sensitivity), Audiox2 (extra sensitivity), Taste, Video Recorder 2D,
   Spotlight Off:Snub Pistol (with tranq) Def:None Brain:CPU=19 linear,
   10 parallel, 2 synaptic, Storage=36 standard, FundLogic=Low
   Autonomous, FundCmd=Basic Command, Software=Biology-3, Close Combat-1,
   Hunting-2, Snub Pistol-1, Recon-2 Append:Light Armx2 Other:Fuel=54
   litres, Cargo=29 litres, ObjSize=Tiny, EmLevel=Faint
   
   A more interesting type of Talpaku robot is the Yatikiki Biological
   Sampler Robot. Our complex nutritional needs can make colonies very
   reliant on foodstuffs imported from offworld, so it is important to
   make the most use of the biospheres of all our worlds. This robot is
   designed to go about the wilderness, looking for plants and small
   animals. The robot can be instructed to search for any new organism,
   or given particular criteria to use in searching.
   
   Biological surveys normally make robots responsible for different
   areas within the survey region. Each robot is dropped into the centre
   of its area, together with a refrigeration unit and hydrogen gas tank.
   From its base, each robot makes numerous field trips, progressively
   covering the surrounding area. The inbuilt radio is used when the
   mission is complete or when some pre-designated situation occurs.
   
   The video recorder can be replaced by a video camera, which transmits
   video images back to the mission supervisor. Another version has a
   half normal size fuel tank, allowing extra storage space.
   
   There are apocryphal stories of sampler robots capturing Zhodani
   spies, mistaking them for wildlife.
   




 Talpaku Referee's Notes 

   
Talpaku Referee's Notes
    By Grant Sinclair
    Date: 18th June 1996
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
The Gourmet Club

   There are small numbers of dark eccentrics on a number of worlds
   called the "Gourmet Club". These Talpaku particularly like human flesh
   and periodically kidnap humans (mostly Zhodani) for this purpose. The
   unfortunate victims are kept alive in order to provide fresh, raw meat
   at a feast, generally an elaborate affair. Some prefer specific
   sub-races of humaniti or even individual blood types.
   
   The organisation is too loose for authorities to stamp it out
   entirely. The authorities are also frustrated by the fact that it is
   quite easy for those with means to secretly obtain humans. At present,
   the media is voluntarily downplaying these events, in an attempt to
   stop other dark eccentrics being inspired to copy these crimes.
   Although this policy does appear to be working, it does have the
   unfortunate side effect that visitors are also unaware of the
   existence of the club.
   
Character Generation

   Talpaku characters should be generated as per normal rules, except
   that psionic ability and anagathics are not possible. Homeworld
   limited to one of the worlds of the Talpaku Communality or one of the
   nearby worlds stated as including Talpaku population.
   
   Roll up characteristics as normal, except:
   
   Classic Traveller: Subtract 1 from Strength (minimum 1). Gain DM of +1
   on any interpersonal die roll (excepting those involving Zhodani). Any
   career from the normal set and from Citizens of the Imperium is
   allowed. Rogues exist, but as members of street gangs and not as
   individuals.
   
   Megatraveller: As Classic Traveller. In addition, a bonus of 2 is
   gained for aging roll saving throws (since the Talpaku live longer
   than standard humans).
   
   TNE: Subtract 1 from Strength (minimum 1), add 1 to Charisma (maximum
   15). Any career from the normal set of careers is allowed (except that
   Psionic Researchers and Rebels require permission of the referee).
   Toughs exist, but as members of street gangs and not as individuals.
   In addition, a bonus of 2 is gained for aging roll saving throws.
   
   In addition, players may elect that their character is eccentric.
   Players choose a suitable, significant, eccentricity and also gain a
   significant advantage (perhaps a DM of +1 on rolls made involving a
   given characteristic). Both the eccentricity and advantage must be
   approved by the referee.
   
Roleplaying Talpaku

   Talpaku think that all Regency humans are like the people they met
   through the IISS, RISS and diplomatic services and rather like them.
   They think that Regency humans are great people and find them far
   nicer and more trustworthy than the Zhodani.
   
   Since musical scores and even holochips with critical information are
   so small, player characters could individually become significant on a
   trade level.
   
Overall Military Strategy

   The Talpaku are experimenting with warbots with prototype TL 15 power
   plants and energy weapons. These have average intelligence and hence
   are superior to Zhodani warbots. The Zhodani only know about the
   standard Talpaku TL 12/13 warbots, which are slightly inferior to
   their own designs, so the Talpaku hope to give the Zho a shock the
   next time around. They cannot make great numbers of these, but hope
   that deployment at a critical moment could turn the tide of battle.
   This could be the only thing where they are better than the Zho. A
   Virus outbreak amongst warbots would be horrific...
   
Talpaku Intentions

   Expansion: Now that the S'raak form a small buffer state between the
   Communality and the Zhodani, the Talpaku are again expansionist. The
   government sees such expansion, if handled properly, as a way of
   improving the economy and of improving the public perception of the
   government. At this stage, expansion into subsector M is most
   attractive, since there are some worlds there that the Communality
   would like to snap up before anyone else does. Otherwise, the
   Communality is looking into expansion into Tsadra sector. The S'raak
   Empire: It is true that much of the Talpaku military is tied up on the
   S'raak border, but this was the case before the S'raak War anyway
   (against the Zhodani). The Communality feels that it is strong enough
   to handle any future S'raak invasion, now that the S'raak advantage of
   surprise has been negated. It is the continuing annoyance of the tiny
   raids that cause a problem.
   
   The Communality does not particularly want any of the worlds of the
   S'raak Empire (most are less than ideal for Talpaku colonisation), but
   if the S'raak were to provide a reasonable excuse for the Talpaku to
   take a world or two from them, the Communality knows that this would
   be politically possible. Of course it is aware that this is true of
   the other states bordering the S'raak Empire, and so the Talpaku watch
   openings for the others very carefully.
   
   The Communality believes that the raids are more than just independent
   pirates, and is hoping to get information from captured pirates that
   point to S'raak or Zhodani involvement.
   
Language

   Talpaku words are translated into Galanglic in two ways. Some words
   are translated according to meaning, since the name carries meaning to
   the thing (e.g. Broken Promise, Firestar).
   
   Others are translated by the use of an artificial language, replacing
   particular whistles and clicks with letters. Such words can be
   generated as normal, rolling 1D for number of syllables and then
   generating each syllable by consulting the table.
   
   All vowels are short (as the "a" in "apple") and pronounced (unlike
   the "e" in "apple"). Most consonants are hard and need not be doubled.
   For instance, the sound "apple" would be spelt ("apl"). The only
   exceptions to the consonants rule are the breathed w, wh, hwh (each
   having more breath than the last) and ch (which is pronounced as in
   the Scottish loch). The kk initial consonant is not an exception - it
   is pronounced as two k's.

                   Basic                                    Alternate
             1   2   3   4   5   6                  1   2   3   4   5   6
         1   C   C   C   C   C   C                  V   V   V   V   V   V
         2   C   C   C   C   C   C                  V   V   V   V   V   V
         3  CV  CV  CV  CV  CV  CV                 VC  VC  VC  VC  VC  VC
         4  CV  CV  CV  CV  CV  CV                 VC  VC  VC  VC  VC  VC
         5  CV  CV  CV  CV  CV  CV                 CV  CV  CV  CV  CV  CV
         6 CVC CVC CVC CVC CVC CVC                CVC CVC CVC CVC CVC CVC
   For initial syllables, or after CV or V      For syllables after VC or CVC

1  Initial Consonant              Vowel                     Final Consonant
     1   2   3   4   5   6    1   2   3   4   5   6     1   2   3   4   5   6
 1   B   B   B   B   B   B    A   A   A   A   A   A    BL  BL  BL  BL  BL  BL
 2   B   B   B   B   B   B    A   A   A   A   A   A    BL  BL  BL  BL  BL  BL
 3  CH  CH  CH  CH  CH  CH    A   A   A   A   A   A    CH  CH  CH  CH  CH  CH
 4  CH  CH  CH  CH  CH  CH    A   A   A   A   A   A    CH  CH  CH  CH  CH  CH
 5   D   D   D   D   D   D    A   A   A   A   A   A    CH  CH  CH  CH  CH  CH
 6   G   G   G   G   G   G    A   A   A   A   A   A     D   D   D   D   D   D

2  Initial Consonant              Vowel                     Final Consonant
     1   2   3   4   5   6    1   2   3   4   5   6     1   2   3   4   5   6
 1   G   G   G   G   G   G    A   A   A   A   A   A     D   D   D   D   D   D
 2   G   G   G   G   G   G    A   A   A   A   A   A    DL  DL  DL  DL  DL  DL
 3   K   K   K   K   K   K    A   A   A   A   A   A    DL  DL  DL  DL  DL  DL
 4   K   K   K   K   K   K    A   A   A   A   A   A   DWH DWH DWH DWH DWH DWH
 5   K   K   K   K   K   K    A   A   A   A   A   A     K   K   K   K   K   K
 6   K   K   K   K   K   K    E   E   E   E   E   E     K   K   K   K   K   K

3  Initial Consonant              Vowel                     Final Consonant
     1   2   3   4   5   6    1   2   3   4   5   6     1   2   3   4   5   6
 1   K   K   K   K   K   K    E   E   E   E   E   E    KL  KL  KL  KL  KL  KL
 2  KH  KH  KH  KH  KH  KH    E   E   E   E   E   E    KL  KL  KL  KL  KL  KL
 3  KK  KK  KK  KK  KK  KK    E   E   E   E   E   E    KL  KL  KL  KL  KL  KL
 4  KK  KK  KK  KK  KK  KK    E   E   E   E   E   E    KT  KT  KT  KT  KT  KT
 5  KK  KK  KK  KK  KK  KK    E   E   E   E   E   E    KT  KT  KT  KT  KT  KT
 6  KZ  KZ  KZ  KZ  KZ  KZ    E   E   E   E   E   E     L   L   L   L   L   L

4  Initial Consonant              Vowel                     Final Consonant
     1   2   3   4   5   6    1   2   3   4   5   6     1   2   3   4   5   6
 1  KZ  KZ  KZ  KZ  KZ  KZ    I   I   I   I   I   I     L   L   L   L   L   L
 2  KZ  KZ  KZ  KZ  KZ  KZ    I   I   I   I   I   I     L   L   L   L   L   L
 3   P   P   P   P   P   P    I   I   I   I   I   I    LK  LK  LK  LK  LK  LK
 4   T   T   T   T   T   T    I   I   I   I   I   I    LK  LK  LK  LK  LK  LK
 5   T   T   T   T   T   T    I   I   I   I   I   I    LK  LK  LK  LK  LK  LK
 6   V   V   V   V   V   V    I   I   I   I   I   I    LV  LV  LV  LV  LV  LV

5  Initial Consonant              Vowel                     Final Consonant
     1   2   3   4   5   6    1   2   3   4   5   6     1   2   3   4   5   6
 1   V   V   V   V   V   V    I   I   I   I   I   I    LV  LV  LV  LV  LV  LV
 2   W   W   W   W   W   W    O   O   O   O   O   O    PL  PL  PL  PL  PL  PL
 3   W   W   W   W   W   W    O   O   O   O   O   O    PT  PT  PT  PT  PT  PT
 4  WH  WH  WH  WH  WH  WH    O   O   O   O   O   O    PT  PT  PT  PT  PT  PT
 5  WH  WH  WH  WH  WH  WH    O   O   O   O   O   O    PT  PT  PT  PT  PT  PT
 6  WH  WH  WH  WH  WH  WH    O   O   O   O   O   O     T   T   T   T   T   T

6  Initial Consonant              Vowel                     Final Consonant
     1   2   3   4   5   6    1   2   3   4   5   6     1   2   3   4   5   6
 1 HWH HWH HWH HWH HWH HWH    U   U   U   U   U   U    TL  TL  TL  TL  TL  TL
 2 HWH HWH HWH HWH HWH HWH    U   U   U   U   U   U    TL  TL  TL  TL  TL  TL
 3   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y    U   U   U   U   U   U     Z   Z   Z   Z   Z   Z
 4   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y    U   U   U   U   U   U     Z   Z   Z   Z   Z   Z
 5  ZD  ZD  ZD  ZD  ZD  ZD    U   U   U   U   U   U    ZK  ZK  ZK  ZK  ZK  ZK
 6  ZD  ZD  ZD  ZD  ZD  ZD    U   U   U   U   U   U    ZK  ZK  ZK  ZK  ZK  ZK





 The Vlazhdumecta 

   
The Vlazhdumecta (as at 1201)
    by David Thornell (with Grant Sinclair)
    Date: 15 August 1994 (Published in TTC)
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The following comes from the History of Draj Orshtiel (First House) on
   Anchli, (Yiklerzdanzh 2140), as collected by Archivist Shtivats
   jir-Vretsdriezh. This special collection presents the mixed blood
   Vlazhdumecta (the most commonly encountered type in Afachtiabr) and
   the rarer pure or near-pure blood people (as in the Izrats Kriezhlas
   Unity in Yiklerzdanzh, the last remaining Vlazhdumecta state, and in
   backwater settlements in Afachtiabr).
   
Physiology
   
   Externally, we show only minor differences from the bulk of humaniti.
   However, the story is quite different below the cellular level, where
   extensive geneering by the Ancients has greatly modified the genetic
   mechanism (while still remaining within human norms).
   
   These genetic differences have led some scientists to argue that we
   should be considered a separate race, rather than part of humaniti. As
   we have obviously interbred with other human races, this is of course
   nonsense.
   
   Evidence suggests that this geneering was incomplete when the Final
   War began and that the stabilisation of our biochemistry has been a
   gradual process over the last 300,000 years. The interbreeding over
   the last 6 millenia with the Sky Raiders, Zhodani and other human
   races has been of great assistance.
   
   Height and Weight: There is little difference in size between males
   and females. Both sexes average 1.9 m tall. However, while males mass
   approximately 90 kg, females mass slightly less at 85 kg.
   
   Appearance: Our appearance remains mostly unchanged from that of our
   ancestors millenia ago. Our skin is heavily pigmented and ranges in
   colour from golden bronze to almost pure black. Most pure blooded
   Vlazhdumecta are a dark bronze. While our skin is dry, we have a layer
   of subcutaneous fat which gives us a sleek, "rounded" appearance. Our
   hair is coarse, straight and usually pure white. Interbreeding has
   seen the appearance in the last few thousand years of blonde, grey and
   even brown hair. However, facial and body hair is almost non-existent.
   
   Our faces are dolichocephalic (long-headed), triangular in shape with
   high cheekbones. There is some prognathism (projection) of the lower
   face. We have a wide forehead that slopes back from a light brow
   ridge. The nose is small, convex and high bridged. Eyes are always
   large and dark. There is an epicanthic fold and secondary lid
   arrangement controlled by additional muscles beneath the brow line.
   This gives us our so-called "sleepy" appearance to other humans, but
   protects against glare and windborn particles. We have small, recessed
   ears which lie flat against the skull. A protective membrane can seal
   them from cold and dust. Because of this arrangement, we have poor
   hearing in standard atmospheres or thinner.
   
   A female of our race is featured in a large low resolution
   illustration (33K) and also in a higher resolution head and torso
   only view (24K).
   
   Diet: Like most humans, we are omnivorous. However, due to the changes
   in our metabolism, we require a regular intake of certain amino acids
   and sugars. Luckily, these can be found in most foodstuffs. These
   changes also allow us to find nutrition in a wide range of
   biochemistries. We generally eat 5 to 6 small meals a day, the largest
   of which is generally taken after the first sleep period of the day.
   
   Rest: Our colonising origin has made our circadian rhythm highly
   adaptable. However, left to itself, our natural rhythm seems to be
   adapted to a 28 hour repeating cycle over 168 hours (6 hours sleep, 10
   hours work, 4 hours sleep, 8 hours rest). The sleep periods in the
   final 28 hour period are generally longer, with a shortened rest
   period. When working in the 24 hour cycle of most other human
   cultures, we usually keep a shortened 24 hour cycle over the same
   period (4 hours sleep, 8 hours work, 9 hours sleep, 7 hours rest).
   
   Reproduction: We are unusual in that the female has well marked
   periods of oestrous. These were originally of fixed durations and
   times, but they have become longer and more frequent over the
   millenia.
   
   Males are always sexually capable, but suffer periods of infertility,
   due to the last remnants of incomplete geneering.
   
   If fertilisation occurs, live offspring are born after a gestation
   period of about 270 days. Multiple births are rare. It appears that
   this method of reproduction was developed to offset the lowered
   fertility associated with the geneered changes made by the Ancients.
   Sterile offspring are still relatively common (1/1000), although much
   less so than at the time of original Zhodani contact (1/20).
   
   Those of us with even a minor Zhodani genetic heritage tend to be more
   fertile and are less likely to bear to sterile children. With as much
   as half Zhodani or other genetic heritage, sterile offspring are
   virtually unknown and fertility is further increased (though still
   lower then human norms).
   
   Senses: Our senses are about as acute as those of other humans. We
   differ only in that our eyes can cope with greater brightness and
   atmospheric irritants and that our hearing is less acute in standard
   or thinner atmospheres.
   
   Anatomy: Apart from the minor differences already mentioned, there is
   little to distinguish us externally from other humans. However,
   internally, our basic biochemical functions exhibit several major
   differences from other human races. Of most interest is that our
   bodies are in a constant state of metabolic acidosis. This is due to
   the higher plasma levels of lipids and ketone bodies resulting from
   metabolism of an extra four amino acids. As a result, some humans
   (particularly Solomani) complain of an unpleasant odour associated
   with us. We have a different range of blood types to other humans. The
   three major types are designated V1, V2 and V3 for convenience.
   
   Lifespan: Biological evidence has shown that the first Vlazhdumecta
   were autopolyploidal. It is believed that the Ancients geneering
   efforts on them were experimental and incomplete at the time of the
   Final War. As a result, sterility of offspring after the war exceeded
   50%. Population would have plummeted and extinction would have been
   imminent for millenia after the war.
   
   However, these changes have markedly reduced the rate and effects of
   senescence compared to that in other Humans (even Vilani). A racially
   pure Vlazhdumecta has a life expectancy of about 130 standard years.
   For most of that period, they will appear unchanged from when they
   were 30-40 years old. Interbreeding has reduced the lifespan, but even
   those with less than one eighth Vlazhdumectan blood can expect a
   lifespan of 110-120 years.
   
   However, at some point the metabolic process starts breaking down.
   Degenerative changes occur rapidly and death is usually 8 to 10 months
   after the first physical symptoms. This period is called the Inzhan
   Hel: ("divine wind"). Due to the horrendous breakdown that occurs once
   senescence sets in, most of us finalise our affairs after the first
   symptoms and opt for euthanasia.
   
   The last vestiges of unstable biochemistry produces premature Inzhan
   Hel in about 1 in 100,000 of us. This tragic event usually also
   induces unstable psychological patterns.
   
Cellular Geneering

   Most of the changes in our race are the result of only a few
   fundamental changes in our genetic structure. The non-histones, the
   small proteins that bind other proteins to DNA, are markedly
   different. Transcription of specific genes into mRNA is thereby
   modified and enhanced with the use of several unusual biosymthetic
   enzymes, thus aiding the synthesis of additional protein. Our
   chromosomes are also much more heterochromatic than other humans,
   meaning that unlike other races, most of our chromosome is involved in
   genetic activity. However, some of this activity is additional
   reiterations of genes. Another benefit is an increase in packing
   density, resilience and regrowth potential of the neurons and their
   surrounding myelin sheath.
   
Psychology

   Philosophy: To us, the universe is hierarchical in nature. It
   comprises the mundane (yetsda), sublime (kethra), and causal (hokhsda)
   worlds. The physical mind and body can only experience the mundane
   world. The world as experienced through the external senses can never
   relate to true reality. The sublime world is experienced through the
   inner mind, manifested by intuition, imagination, and the visionary
   experience. This is the true reality, and is experienced most directly
   during the Inzhan Hel, prior to death. The causal world is a unified
   consciousness that links the mundane and sublime experiences. This is
   most easily accomplished through the use of psionic potential's.
   
   To the extent that this philosophy embraces religion, we believe that
   God is utterly unknowable, but is present in all creation. Creation is
   God, whose energies can be experienced through the sublime being.
   
   Lam Dre ("proper action"): The basic ideal to which all Vlazhdumecta
   strive. The concept refers to principles including honour, gentility,
   sensitivity to proper behaviour, faithfulness to duty, recognition of
   ones proper place, and harmony.
   
Society And Culture

   The Vlazhdumecta are a deeply spiritual, emotional people. Their
   society and culture has been profoundly affected by their contact with
   the Zhodani, both before and after the Vlazhdumecta collapse. Like the
   Zhodani, psionics has sculpted our society and is an integral part of
   our racial psyche.
   
   Itos: A basic tenet of our culture. It denotes the understanding from
   within accomplished by empathy, intuition, imagination, and/or divine
   inspiration. It rejects knowledge from without accomplished from
   observation and research.
   
   Draj ("House/clan"): A descent grouping incorporating one or many
   lineages. Companies are often based around these family or extended
   family lines. Even within companies, business units tend to be smaller
   than those of normal Zhodani or Imperial practice. The highest status
   work is associated with value-added products, so Vlazhdumecta items
   tend to be well crafted and long lasting, though more expensive. Some
   travellers like to visit obscure villages, hoping to find some item of
   great workmanship.
   
   Ishikin ("amalgamation of purpose"): A grouping of Houses brought
   together for a common purpose. The group is considered one House for
   legal purposes for the duration of the quest and holds special status.
   If divinely inspired, any action thwarting the achievement of the goal
   can result in pariah status.
   
   Kishik ("place of contemplation"): Any place which is used for quiet
   contemplation and experiencing of the sublime world. Most settlements
   have a variety of such places, whether constructed (our equivalent of
   your churches and monasteries) or natural (specially preserved areas
   of natural wilderness, such as pools and streams). It is not unknown
   for hikers or mountain climbers to come across such places far away
   from population centres, perhaps established and nurtured by a single
   individual.
   
History

   About 6000 years ago, our ancestors were contacted by the Zhodani.
   Already possessing a moderate tech level, they were able to use the
   secret of the jump drive obtained from the Zhodani to colonise much of
   Afachtiabr sector.
   
   At about the same time as the Zhodani were becoming concerned about
   the Vlazhdumecta, a multi-House effort established a colony in
   Yiklerzdanzh. A number of other nearby worlds had just been settled
   when the Vlazhdumecta Colonisation Sphere began to collapse. When it
   was realised that the end was near, the last Vlazhdumecta in
   spin/rimward Afachtiabr with the capability to do so consolidated in
   the Yiklerzdanzh colony. By -4900, the link to the Yiklerzdanzh
   colonies had been long abandoned.
   
Language

   Originally, the Vlazhdumecta spoke numerous languages, each with a
   stylised ideographic written form. After Zhodani contact, many learnt
   the spoken and written forms of Zdetl (the Zhodani language) and so
   Zdetl became the lingua franca of the Vlazhdumecta. Some believe that
   the increased ability to communicate with each other was a factor in
   the sudden boost of Vlazhdumecta fortunes that followed Zhodani
   contact.
   
   As the Vlazhdumecta spread out into space, each colony used an
   official language (derived from the part of the homeworld from which
   they came) and Zdetl (used to communicate with off worlders). The
   languages began to merge and evolve in different directions,
   particularly after the breakup of the Vlazhdumecta Colonial Sphere and
   the influx of Sky Raiders Imperials and other peoples.
   
   Pure Vlazhdumecta languages disappeared well before modern times,
   though many backwater villages speak tongues which in part descend
   from them. Linguists are very interested in reconstructing the
   original languages, but no such attempt has gained wide acceptance.
   Linguists are famous for fierce arguments, attacking the theories of
   others and defending their own, to the point where all are stereotyped
   as fiery, larger than life characters. Archaeologist-Linguists are
   well known patrons of expeditions to obscure villages on obscure
   planets.
   
   Travellers will find that Zdetl is needed on most Zhodani
   ex-Vlazhdumecta worlds. Galanglic is best outside the Consulate, but
   travellers should beware the higher number of loan and slang words
   than usual.
   
Vlazhdumecta Characters

   Character Generation: Vlazhdumecta characters are generated using
   normal rules, except that a -1 DM should be applied to
   Endurance/Constitution (minimum of 2 for Endurance and 1 for
   Constitution).
   
   For all three game systems, aging rolls are made at the usual times.
   For seven-eighths or better Vlazhdumecta blood, add 4 to all saving
   throws against losses (so losses are less likely). For six-eighths,
   the modifier is +3, for five-eighths +2, for one-eighth to
   four-eighths +1. Those with less than one-eighth Vlazhdumecta blood
   live normal human lifetimes.
   
   Anagathics: Normal anagathics have little effect on pure or near-pure
   Vlazhdumecta, due to biochemical differences. However, virtually all
   Vlazhdumecta in Afachtiabr sector have enough genes from other human
   races to use the standard anagathics.





 The Zhodani Presence 

   
The Zhodani presence in Yiklerzdanzh (as at 1201)
    by David Schneider
    Date: 23 October 1994

     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The Zhodani hold six coreward subsectors of Yiklerzdanzh
   (specifically, A-E plus H). This document has library data (including
   some world write-ups) for these subsectors, as at 1201.
   
   Admiral Plaedr: was appointed to command of all military forces in
   Yiklerzdanzh in 1142. His career prior to this date is largely
   unknown, although it is believed that he was transferred to
   Yiklerzdanzh from somewhere coreward. Rumours suggest that this was
   following some scandal, and that he was sent to Yiklerzdanzh to avoid
   embarrassment to the nobility.
   
   The Admiral inherited a shabby command. The majority of the sector
   fleets consisted of second and third line vessels which had been
   reactivated when most of the front line warships were sent as
   replacements for Fifth Frontier War losses. These front line ships had
   never been replaced as the provincial government became more and more
   preoccupied with other matters.
   
   In the first month of taking command the Admiral set the tone for the
   rest of his career as supreme commander in Yiklerzdanzh. He made no
   attempt to upgrade his fleets or equipment, dispersed his most capable
   officers to various minor postings and formed a general staff
   comprised of "yes men".
   
   In 1160, at the outbreak of the S'raak War, the Admiral launched an
   unsuccessful invasion of Meichntid Ibl after assuming that S'raak
   attacks were done at Meichntid Ibl instigation. The invasion was a
   complete disaster and was repulsed with terrible losses. Admiral
   Plaedr was removed from command and subsequently disappeared. An
   illustration (14K) of the Admiral has been circulated by the Zhodani,
   the Rellington News Service and the Meichntid Ibl, all promising
   sizable rewards for information leading to his capture.
   
   Ancients Sites: exist in a number of Zhodani systems in Yiklerzdanzh.
   The Consulate Government confirms only two sites, located on
   Fishieshnianj (0906) and Zhiefnach (1404).
   
   Security is tight on both of the confirmed sites. Zhiefnach, a
   forbidden system, is strictly off limits to non Consulate citizens.
   Numerous requests from foreign scientists to examine either site have
   been refused.
   
   It is rumoured that other Ancients sites exist upon Iabrinch (2605),
   Yienchbrej (1902), Zhdi'apl (2812), Klichints (3008) and Reentschti
   (1206). The Consulate government refuses to confirm or deny rumours of
   these or any other sites.
   
   Iadr Nsobl Province: is a Zhodani province covering sections of
   Yiklerzdanzh, Afachtiabr, Iakr, Briakqra', Tloql, and all of
   Ziafrplians sectors. The Yiklerzdanzh section of the province has its
   senior council located at Kizdalfa (2007)/Shipaiebria. The Zhodani
   systems in Yiklerzdanzh have been settled for millennia and have a
   long history of civilisation.
   
   During the S'raak War, in 1160, the sector fared badly when Fleet
   Admiral Plaedr misinterpreted S'raak attacks as Meichntid Ibl
   aggression. The Admiral launched a disastrously unsuccessful invasion
   of Meichntid Ibl in which the neglected Zhodani fleets were decisively
   defeated.
   
   This defeat was a serious loss of face for the entire province, both
   inside the Consulate and with the states upon its borders. Following
   the S'raak War, Fleet Admiral Plaedr disappeared. Admiral Staedrlie
   replaced Admiral Plaedr and was given special powers by the provincial
   government to put Consulate affairs in Yiklerzdanzh in order.
   
   The following years have seen a variety of new reforms and
   initiatives. The formerly neglected Yiklerzdanzh fleets have been
   reorganised, re-equipped and brought up to strength. The amount of
   military tonnage on the slips has increased dramatically, as has the
   number of combined arms exercises.
   
   Japradlie Incident: In 1193, the Consulate system of Japradlie (0214)
   was attacked by a lone S'raak warship. The S'raak warship was
   successful in destroying a merchant ship and two system defence boats
   before it was itself destroyed.
   
   The incident was thought to be a deliberate act of aggression on the
   part of the S'raak Empire and Zhodani military forces were placed on
   alert in preparation for an invasion by the S'raak.
   
   Later, however, a part of the S'raak warship was recovered by Zhodani
   investigators and the ships log was found. Upon decoding and
   translation of the log, it was discovered that the vessel was one that
   the S'raak had lost to an apparent misjump in the late stages of the
   S'raak War.
   
   According to the ship's log, the S'raak warship had been part of a war
   fleet on its way to engage Meichntid Ibl forces at Chtiejtlenz, but it
   had misjumped due to poor quality zuchai crystals. The ships crew,
   finding themselves some distance from their target and quite far away
   from the nearest system, had set a course for the closest star and
   climbed into cold sleep berths.
   
   When the vessel reached the Zhodani system, after decades of sublight
   travel, the crew climbed out of their cold berths and continued with
   the war, apparently ignorant of the fact that the war had been for
   quite some time.
   
   It is believed, and partly confirmed by the S'raak themselves, that
   quite a few S'raak warships were lost during the war due to misjumps,
   primarily a result of the S'raak's inability to obtain high quality
   jump drive components. There is widespread concern throughout the
   region that, even as you read this entry, there could be S'raak
   warships heading towards your system.
   
   Psionic Shield Helmets: Use of Psi helmets is widespread throughout
   the non Zhodani areas of Yiklerzdanzh. Psi shield helmets block all
   mental attacks upon the wearer of a psionic nature, and also prevent
   any sort of psionic mind reading.
   
   It is not surprising, therefore, that Psi helmets are illegal within
   the borders of the Zhodani Consulate - possession of which is a
   re-education offence. The major manufacturer of Psi helmets in
   Yiklerzdanzh is the Akigura Union, and it is believed that there is a
   thriving smuggling operation of helmets from there into the Consulate.
   
   Qriil Program: Following the appointment of Admiral Staedrlie, large
   numbers of second and third line vessels in service with the Zhodani
   Yiklerzdanzh sector fleets were decommissioned and replaced. This left
   the Zhodani with a large number of surplus vessels, of obsolete
   design.
   
   The Qriil Program, begun in 1171, saw these obsolete vessels sold to
   potential allies and client states at drastically reduced prices. It
   should also be noted that the Program applies not only to warships.
   Large numbers of supply ships, courier vessels and other support craft
   were also decommissioned and replaced.
   
   As a consequence of the Qriil Program the amount of vessels of Zhodani
   origin in service throughout the sector has increased dramatically.
   Former Zhodani vessels can be found in use with planetary defence
   forces, merchant corporations, and an increasingly large amount are
   falling into the hands of independent traders.
   
   Subsector Capitals: The Zhodani government structure in Yiklerzdanzh
   is broken up into seven regional councils based on the subsector
   level. The home systems of these councils are consequently the
   subsector capitals of the subsectors they are in. The Subsector
   Capitals are located at 0708 Chtench/Peedizh Chr, 1308 Viadl
   Rirnch/Tapljifriens, 2007 Kizdalfa/Shipaiebria, 2801 Shiqrch/Drbli
   Chtidr, 0316 Zhelzdatl/Izellensjdash, 1013 Rblinch/Meichntid Ibl, and
   2714 Itlfeklkrekl/Chinzhedniedoch. Zhodani systems in Lenchiajzhdiezh
   are administered directly from Kizdalfza.
   
   The council based on Kizdalfa is the senior council in the subsector
   and is regarded by outsiders as the sector capital. The least powerful
   council is that based upon Rblinch, as it only controls a small number
   of systems. There has been talk for the last ten years or so of
   abolishing the Rblinch council and turning control of the area over to
   Zhelzdatl or Chtench.
   
   Trailing Relay Route: The Zhodani Consulate maintains a special Relay
   Route down the Trailing side of the sector to the Izrats Kriezhlas
   Unity, which is a Zhodani Ally.
   
   The Route goes through the Akigura Union and Salinaikin Concordance.
   It also goes through several independent systems. It is believed that
   the Consulate spends a great deal annually to keep this route open.
   However the route brings a great deal of trade to the systems it goes
   through, which is probably the main reason why the Zhodani bases are
   tolerated by several governments which are not pro-Consulate.
   
   Another relay route used to exist on the Spinward section of the
   sector, but this was closed following the S'raak War. Many systems on
   the previous route suffered extreme economic hardship due to the
   closure. Much of this hardship persists to this day and has resulted
   in quite a bit of anti-Consulate feeling in many systems.
   
   Zheelibli Deerzh: is the foreign news service of the Zhodani Consulate
   in Yiklerzdanzh. The news service has signed a special exchange deal
   with the largest private news network in Yiklerzdanzh, The Rellington
   News Group.
   
   Several governments of states in Yiklerzdanzh have criticised the
   Zheelibli Deerzh as being a propaganda tool of the Consulate
   government. While this may or may not be true, the news service is the
   best, and fastest, source of news about events happening to coreward
   and trailing.
   
   Zhodani Free Traders: Contrary to what some people may prefer to
   believe, the Zhodani Consulate does not restrict free trade. There are
   numerous private companies and corporations throughout Zhodani space
   and among them is the humble free trader.
   
   Like free traders everywhere, most are in operation only after a hefty
   bank loan. So, again like free traders everywhere, Zhodani free
   traders are very much motivated by a desire to make a profit and keep
   ahead of the repayments.
   
   Far traders tend to be owned and operated by members of the Intendant
   class, although some few are operated by adventurous or disgraced
   nobles. Also a surprisingly large number are owned and operated by
   members of the Prole class, probably as this is a way of bypassing
   some aspects of Zhodani social structure.
   
   Many states in Yiklerzdanzh, and in some neighbouring states for that
   matter, are distrustful of Zhodani Free Traders. Meichntid Ibl is the
   worst of these and enforces strict travel regulations for Zhodani
   trading vessels within its territory. It is believed by many people
   that all Zhodani trading vessels are really spy ships gathering
   intelligence for military purposes.
   
   The widespread belief that all Zhodani are psionic is completely
   false. Psionic training is generally limited to the nobility, so it is
   unlikely that a Zhodani merchant will have any psionic abilities.
   However most governments recommend the use of Psionic Shield Helmets
   when dealing with Zhodani. This recommendation is seldom disregarded.
   
   Zhodani Scientific Bases: exist in several systems throughout the
   sector. These can be a sore point with rival states, such as Meichntid
   Ibl and the Talpaku Communality, who suspect that the Zhodani have an
   ulterior motive for the bases and the ships that supply them.
