Villis 270-1099: Marines act against the TFL


Imperial Marines were today involved in a police action in Blomkest, a city 400 km from the starport. Initial reports indicate that a platoon of Marines from the local garrison assisted indigenous troops in an assault on several dwellings in Blomkest, which were believed to have been harbouring members of the Tanoose Freedom League. The garrison commander, Force Leader Henri Joshental, stated that the Marines were involved because they had reason to believe that the TFL were holding a number of off-world Imperial citizens hostage. He also stated that all the hostages had been freed, but unfortunately a Marine, two local troops, and several TFL members had been killed in the fighting. 

Further details provided by the garrison press officer indicated that although the hostage-takers had been identified with the TFL, most were actually mercenaries originating in the Sworld Worlds Confederation. The Imperial Consul on Villis is to make representations to the Confederation government, requesting that they cooperate in preventing such fortune-seekers crossing the border. A TFL spokeswoman contacted the TNS offices shortly after the operation, claiming that the League was not opposed to the Imperium, or aligned with its enemies, but simply wished to gain self-determination for Garda-Villis. She further stated that `recent tactics of groups claiming to act on behalf of the TFL are unfortunate, and were not sanctioned by TFL high command.' The spokeswoman also pointed to the action taken by the TFL against Ine Givar agents who attempted to recruit the organisation in 1083; the remains of their bodies were left outside the Garda-Villis Scout Base, a move taken as a clear indication that the League wasn't interested. 

Garda-Villis is the world immediately coreward of Villis, and has been governed from Villis since 121, a situation allowed by the Imperial government as it ensures the economic strength of the region. The Tanoose Freedom League was formerly a peaceful lobbying group against Villis' rule, but turned to violent means several years ago following government clamp-downs. Tanoose was the name given to the world by a short-lived pre-Imperial colony originating from the Sworld Worlds. Although the TFL has never advocated a move out of the Imperium, the Sword Worlds' government has used the name as propaganda for years. Given the actions reported above, it is unclear if the Confederation has been lending aid to the TFL, or simply using the League's name to cover its own activities. However, the Imperial Consul issued a statement condemning the TFL and its aims, and clearly stating that they were considered to be working with the Ine Givar, against the interests of the Imperium and its member states.  
