Fornast (called Rishurin by the Vilani) was on the trailing fringe of the Ziru
Sirka.  With limited Vilani jump capability, it proved difficult to probe into
Makhuniim (Ley), accessible only with the advanced (for the Vilani) Jump-2
capability developed late (just before the Consolidation Wars and the founding
of the Ziru Sirka).

Fornast is a sector of short Jump-1 mains connected by single 2-parsec jumps.
Most of the mains are oriented along a core-rim axis, although the two most
notable mains in the sector, the Derri and Tharrynra mains, provide spinward-
trailing access to the central and rimward areas of the sector respectively.
Inter-sector connectivity is best into Core sector and to the coreward areas
of Imperial space; the same astrographic deficiencies that limited Vilani
expansion in this region of space also operated to delay ultimate Terran and
Imperial expansion in the area as well.

Fornast sector boasts the following notable mains:

Madu (C) subsector is connected to Antares sector by the rimward end of the
Antares Main; most of Antares sector, and the rimward areas of the Julian
Protectorate, are accessible from here with Jump-1 capability.

The Spas Main connects the spinward half of Spas (B) subsector with the
trailing half of Cirqa (A) subsector, and extends from there into Aarna (E)
subsector.  A Jump-2 ship can use the Spas Main as a connector between the
Antares Main and the Ganad Main into Core Sector; the Spas Main also acts to
connect both mains to the Jump-1 main that leads from the spinward half of
Cirqa subsector through a corner of Core Sector and into Lishun; from the
Lishun end of this main, the Vilani Main is accessible to Jump-2.  In
addition, there is Jump-2 access to a mini-main that in turn gives Jump-2
access to the Derri Main in the center of the sector.  This confluence of
mains makes the core-spinward area of Fornast sector comparatively prosperous.

The Ganad Main from Core Sector has both of its ends in Fornast; much of Imaka
(I) subsector and the rimward portion of Aarna subsector make up the coreward
end of the main, with the trailing end of the main found in the spinward area
of Setten (M) subsector.  The body of the main covers most of the worlds in
Core subsector P, but there is no direct access from there to the Sylean Main.

The Derri Main covers most of the worlds in Akashganar (F) and Derri (G)
subsectors, and provides Jump-2 access to the Ganad Main at the spinward end.
Two small mains, both unnamed, provide connections via Jump-2 to the Antares
Main; the more spinward of the two also provides a similar connection to the
Spas Main, while the more trailing of the two also provides Jump-1 access to
Snogsta (D) subsector.

The Tharrynra Main stretches from Setten subsector, where it provides a Jump-2
connection to the Ganad Main, through Tharrynra (N) and Shumduur (O) subsectors,
into Zukhin (P) subsector.  Most of the worlds in Tharrynra and the rimward
two-thirds of Shumduur are on this main; the coreward third of Shumduur is a
mini-main on its own, which is accessible by Jump-2 from the Tharrynra Main.

The Dikhari Main services Dikhari (K) subsector and provides Jump-2 access to
connect the Derri and Tharrynra Mains, as well as the Shumduur mini-main.
