Cymbeline

Society on Cymbeline is shaped by the canyons. Hours of daylight are short, even in the east-west canyons. Temperatures in the canyons outside the equatorial cities are not too uncomfortable (around 10C during the day near Findor, -20C at night; slightly cooler for Cranches and Logos). Of the primary cities, only Wildine lies outside this habitable band, with night-time temperatures reaching as low as -100C. All cities have controlled environments, warmer than the surrounding canyons and with denser air. Each district is equipped with limited mobility, and in case of volcanic disaster or extreme earthquake can lift itself out of the rock wall and move along the canyon floor. Advanced seismic survey and prediction has meant that this has not had to happen for more than a century, and less mobile structures have recently been built, such as the monorails. All but the most severe earthquakes can be weathered without moving, but the Seismic Watch is still run 24 hours a day - more as a tradition than a serious safety measure.

About the most troublesome event to occur with any frequency is the phenomenon of "soil storms". Despite the extremely thin atmosphere outside the canyons, clouds of volcanic ash, dust from weathered rock, and ice, water or snow are often blown into the canyons. This is usually only dangerous for those outside the cities (where it can clog vehicle or suit joints and reduce visibility to zero), but often requires massive cleanup efforts.

Citizens have adapted to the short day-night cycle by abandoning a regular pattern, and napping when appropriate. This can be upsetting for visitors, whose circadian cycles cannot readily adjust - standard Imperial time is prominently displayed in most public areas for their benefit. Another odd feature for a high-tech world is the emphasis on untreated rocks in ornamentation. People wear small lumps of rock as jewellery, have it imbedded into their skin (the forehead being a popular location), and decorate buildings and parks with larger pieces.
