Ochre

The population of Ochre is divided into two distinct cultures, "city folk" and "wilders".

Close to the poles, the city folk either live an ordered, stratified existence under the heavy hand of the authorities, or scrabble to make a living as part of the unacknowledged criminal underclass. Life can be good for the captains of industry, and even the overworked proles are well provided for if they toe the line. High technology does much to ease the lives of everyone - but it does most for those with power, and workers have little recourse if their jobs are destroyed by the advancing robotics technology. Accommodation for proles is cramped, with communal eating halls providing artificially-grown, -flavoured and -shaped proteins. The level of accommodation improves with social position (which corresponds to income and/or party position), as does access to nonessential amenities. Everyone is liable to have their papers randomly checked, however.

The north polar region is the more heavily-populated of the two citified zones, with close to half the total urban population concentrated in the capital, Hythene, which hosts the only starport, Hythene Down. The area around the port is the centre for much conflict. The poorest gather in the hope of getting offworld (or at least touching offworlders for money), traders of all sorts fight for position, and the authorities try to keep the streets clear in order to create a "good impression" on visitors. Laws on trade are laxer than most others, but what laws do exist protect the rights of larger businesses at the expense of free traders. Nevertheless, this is a vibrant neighbourhood, where almost anything can be obtained for the right price.

The first impression formed by most Imperial visitors to Ochre is that it is much like any other high-tech urbanised world, with the usual mixture of rich and poor - except for the irritating, bureaucratic, paper-checking police force. If they stay longer, they generally begin to see it as some kind of stifling Orwellian police state; but if they stay even longer, they begin to see that the human spirit has not been crushed. There are escape valves, and (for those that choose to go along with the system) benefits such as free education and health care. While far from the best place to live, Ochre is not the worst, either.

In the mid-latitudes, the wilders have rejected the government's regimentation. They live a life of hard work but freedom, reminiscent of the stereotypical "Old West" homesteaders. Family ties are strong, and extended families the norm. People here will welcome those who are willing to pull their weight, especially if they have had trouble with the government; but shirkers and people who suggest that an easier life would be worth a small loss of freedom will get short shrift. Many wilders engage in small-scale mining operations which can be used to obtain necessary supplies from the cities, but few will acknowledge that they rely on the cities for anything. Water is the single most precious resource in the mid-latitudes - almost none occurs naturally, and although various imported crops thrive in the rich volcanic soil on the slopes of the main mountain ranges, they still require significant quantities. Domestic animals for meat are a luxury wilders can ill afford, but few are vegetarian - the vermin that have spread from the cities carry very few diseases not killed by cooking, and provide a tasty addition to the normal diet...
