
Noricum's native life evolved directly from sea to air forms, apparently by way of many varieties of flying fish and rays. Such an evolutionary pattern was aided by the world's low gravity and dense atmosphere. Both environments teem with life; there are more aerial species on Noricum than on any other known planet.
Among the more spectacular types are the whilom, a genus of gas bag types that fill themselves (in the larval stage) with natural gas from vents in the shallow ocean waters and then float in the air for the rest of their lives, catching insects in their dangling tentacles and absorbing moisture from the air. At breeding time they entwine with any member of their species that blows by, and scatter their eggs on the water. Of course, the attrition rate from fish eating the eggs is tremendous, but one whilom lays over a million eggs, so the species are in no danger.

The presence of the whilom poses a threat to airborne vehicles in that they are flammable in collisions, much as the oegongong in Vargr space are, although for different reasons. The danger posed by their vast numbers compelled the Travellers' Aid Society to post an amber warning on this system.

Although almost no land appears above water on Noricum, there are literal forests of sea plants, counter-weighted to stand upright, that extend several meters into the air in many places. Where these plants have intertwined their roots, they may form large mats up to several kilometers across. In the protected waters among their stalks, another ecology flourishes, including the only crawling forms to be found on the planet.

The erifine is a amphibian (adults average 10 cm in length) that crawls up the stalks of the floating forests into the thickest foliage it can find for protection from predatory fliers. There it metamorphoses, builds a nest, eats leaves while raising its young, and dies soon after the young glide down into the water to start the cycle over.

Amid all these interesting creatures live some 40 million people, mostly in grav cities. They are ruled by the Alkalif, a group whose members are selected in infancy and trained for their role until age 30. The populace is convinced that this produces the best possible leaders, possibly because charisma is one of the traits trained into the Alkalif. Only servants of the government are permitted individual flight (with grav belts) and they may go anywhere, including citizen's homes, in pursuit of their duties as they conceive them.

The local culture places little value on privacy. Visitors should use discretion, since their words can be repeated to the highest officials if they criticize anything.

Major muster point and Naval refueling station


Noricum is a concentration point for the Confederation navy, and currently the site of a massive buildup of warships in response to the regional tensions. As a waterworld, it is a natural source of fuel as well, and two "beanstalks" have been constructed at the equators to pump converted hydrogen up to the highport. 

 Civilian travel to and from Noricum is discouraged.
