Pagliacci is a backwater agricultural planet, most of which is uninhabited and unexplored. It is occasionally used as a stopover by ships heading toward Solomani Confederation or Hiver territory, but it otherwise plays little role in the subsector economy. 

Pagliacci is a medium-sized (11,200 km dia.) world with a thin atmosphere and water over 40% of its surface. The year on Pagliacci is 532 Imperial days in length and has four seasons: spring, summer, fall, and winter. Each of these seasons is approximately 133 days long, or 19 weeks. Its Surface gravity is .98 G and it has a maximum axial tilt of 18°. 

Pagliacci has a population of about 65 million, most of which is concentrated in farming settlements within a few hundred kilometers of Dion, the starport, largest city, and seat of government. The only reason for the existence of Dion starport on Pagliacci is the planet's location on one of the main trade routes from the Solomani Rim to the rimward worlds of the Hive Federation. Pagliacci has little in the way of mineral wealth or readily exploitable resources (at least none that have been discovered) and has never been the subject of any great colonization efforts, either by the Imperial government, by Megacorporations, or by private interests. 

Most of the manufacturing and industry which takes place on the planet is clustered within a few hundred kilometers of Dion starport. The remainder is scattered in small farming settlements throughout the region. Agriculture is limited mostly to subsistence farming, with a moderate surplus, all of which is sold to the industrial towns around the starport. The planet is largely self-sufficient, and off planet trade is minimal. 

A small portion of the population has found the confines of civilization too restrictive, and made off into the outback. Some of these are seeking their fortunes, hoping to be the discoverer of some valuable mineralogical treasure which was overlooked by the initial planetary survey. Others are part of that small portion of humanity that feel that a neighbor is too close if you can see the smoke of his cooking fire. 
