AAB
Argushiigi Admegulasha Bilanidin

The Argushiigi Admegulasha Bilanidin, which in Vilani literally means the "Vilani Repository of All Knowledge", is a major scientific institution on Vland. The extensive AAB facilities include a vast museum, a library, and several research centres and publishing houses. Not only does AAB collect samples, specimens, and recorded materials from all over explored space , but it also publishes an abridged 15 holocrystal encyclopedia set of its extensive data files. Known simply as "The Encyclopedia", the set contains the equivalent of 7500 extensively illustrated volumes, yet it can easily fit into a large pocket.

The Argushiigi Admegulasha Bilanidin (also called the AAB) is perhaps the most respected scientific and research body in known space.Located in the city of Ishimaga on Vland ( Vland / Vland 1717), the extensive AAB facilities include a vast museum, a library, and several research centres and publishing houses. The vast stockpile of information to be found here is far beyond that available anywhere else in the Imperium, and thus the AAB has become a sort of 'clearing house' for new inventions and patents.

Not only does the AAB collect samples, specimens and recorded materials from all over collected space, it also publishes an abridged 15-holocrystal encyclopedia set of its extensive data files. Known simply as "The Encyclopedia", the set contains the equivalent of 7500 fully illustrated volumes, yet it can easily fit into a large pocket.

Although the AAB sponsors very few outside research programs, it maintains a vast network of laboratories on Vland.

Due to the often conservative nature of the AAB, researchers who find employment here are likely to be investigating already existing phenomena, rather than breaking new scientific ground. Its giant database is freely available to scholars and researchers who come to Vland.

The personnel and resources of the AAB also form the backbone of the faculty and learning materials of Kasiiga University.


^^^^

Abyss

Engulfing most of the Lanth subsector and extending into the Vilis and Lunion subsectors, the Abyss is a large area of low stellar density in the midst of the Spinward Marches. It has been the site of several notable ship disappearances over the last half-millenium, and has built up a substantial amount of lore associated with the vanished vessels.

Only seven systems lie within the Abyss' boundaries.


^^^^

Adair

Archduke of Sol, Grand Admiral of the Rim. Adair's great grandmother held the post of Grand Admiral of the Rim during the Solomani Rim War, and was rewarded with the Archduchy.

^^^^

Addaxur

Intelligent minor race of six-legged carnivores from a high gravity world 40 parsecs from Zhdant ( Gavel / Zhdant 2719). This world is in Subsector-G of Tienspevnekr sector.

The Addaxur had established an empire of 37 worlds, with communications maintained by sublight ships, by the time the Zhodani discovered them in -5110. The Zhodani observed the fringes of the empire for about ten years before making open contact in -5120. Carefully planned overtures established friendly relations and reserved 10 of the Addaxur's 37 worlds for the Addaxur without restricting Zhodani expansion.

^^^^

Air/Raft
Air Raft

Also known as a flier, the air/raft relies on solid-state anti-grav modules for lift and propulsion. Four independent, individually replaceable modules insure a maximum of safety, in that each provides one-quarter of the vehicle's total lift. A standard air/raft masses about 4 tons, and can carry a payload of about 4 tons, including the pilot and 3 passengers. Cruising speed is usually 100 kph, with unlimited range and endurance. The normal air/raft is open-topped and subject to the effects of weather and climate.

The major drawbacks to the air/raft are its low load capacity, its relatively slow speed, and its susceptibility to weather (both the negative effects of bad weather on passengers and the slowing effects of high winds and buffeting).

Most air/rafts are capable of reaching orbit (occupants must wear vacc suits) but the trip will take several (6 to 8) hours. Also, most can be overloaded with passengers (a maximum of 8 can fit with minimal comfort) so long as the tonnage maximum is not exceeded.

@@@@airraft.jpg

^^^^

Akuaeuhrekhyeh

Aslan rite of passage. All Aslan undergo this rite at age 16 (Aslan years). This rite tests the individual's fitness to enter society, and has an impact on the service which may be selected by the individual.

Males and females undergo different rites.

^^^^

Al Morai

Sector-wide merchant line based on Mora ( Mora / Spinward Marches 3124). Established in 120 as a local transport company serving systems within ten parsecs of its base, the company soon expanded to handle freight and passengers travelling from the Darrian and Sword Worlds subsectors to the Imperium.

During the widespread explorations of the Marches in the third century (201 to 300), Al Morai established an Exploration Division to supplement its cargo carriers. That division discovered, claimed, and developed two worlds: Windsor ( Glisten / Spinward Marches 1935) and Shirene ( Lunion / Spinward Marches 2125).

Windsor was later sold to Ling Standard Products; Shirene was retained as a base of operations and a source of merchant goods.

Organisation
Al Morai has three operating divisions: the Transport Division, the Markets Division, and the Exploration Division.

The Transport Division operates Al Moral's fleet of thirty cargo carriers, providing both passenger and freight service.

The Markets Division maintains Al Morai's starport facilities along its routes. In addition to providing ticket facilities and freight terminals, it operates as a merchant, buying local goods for export and importing needed materials for sale.

The Exploration Division originally surveyed star systems, but as new star systems became unavailable, its purpose shifted to surface exploration of Shirene . The Exploration Division currently operates a large geological survey team, with prospecting detachments throughout Shirene .

Origins of the Company
Al Morai was originally organized under the business codes of Mora. The peculiar corporations of that world grew out of frontier partnerships where the partners contributed capital to build the business, but also relied on their membership to provide themselves with jobs.

When the company was organized, 100 shares of stock were issued. Most of the partners received one share; a few received more than one. Each share of stock entitled the owner to a portion of the profits of the company, and provided the right to a job (of certain salary levels and responsibilities) with the company. Those with more than one share used the extras to provide jobs for family members.

Stock Ownership and Employment
The original organization served well enough in Al Morai's formative years, but as the company grew, the stock ownership system changed. Stock splits and stock dividends increased the number of shares outstanding. Eventually, the company by-laws were amended to allow the employment rights to be stripped (separated) from the common shares and sold or traded separately. Employees could sell their stock while retaining their right to their job; heirs of former employees could sell their job rights to Job seekers while retaining their common stock.

Eventually, the current system evolved. Common shares indicate ownership of the company and provide dividends when the company is profitable. There are currently 200 million common shares outstanding; single shares sell for between Cr500 and Cr8OO on the open market. Shares currently pay a dividend of Cr10 per share annually.

Employment shares provide the right to employment with the company. For a variety of reasons, one share no longer entitles the owner to one job. Instead, employees must own one employment share for each credit of monthly salary. A starship pilot entitled to Cr6,000 per month must own 6,000 employment shares. A pilot normally eligible for a 10% skill bonus because he or she has Pilot-2 would also have to have an additional 600 employment shares before the additional salary could be paid. The true value of employment shares is that they can be used to achieve higher than normal salaries. An excess of up to 50% of normal salary can be drawn if enough employment shares are owned. A pilot normally entitled to a salary of Cr6,600 could actually draw a salary of Cr9,900 if he or she held 9,900 employment shares. Excess salary comes from company profits and is paid only if the company is profitable; when the company is losing money, only normal salary is paid.

Holders of employment shares have an absolute right to a job of the appropriate normal salary as long as they own the employment shares.

Employment shares sell for Cr12 each. Employees often purchase their employment shares through a time purchase plan administered through the company.

Alternative Employment
Al Morai does not have enough employment shares outstanding to completely fill its labor needs. Consequently, the company acquires much of its labor through independent contractors. Ship crews are exclusively hired from employment share holders. Market Division employees on worlds other than Mora and Shirene are often independent contractors; they are paid ordinary salaries and can be hired and fired as required.

Employment share employees of Al Moral refer to contract employees as children or kids.

Route Service
Al Morai maintains interstellar service to the capitals of Imperial subsectors in the Spinward Marches , and to Imperial worlds along the trade routes which connect them. Service outside the Imperium (to Darrian and the Sword Worlds ) was discontinued when the First Frontier War began in 589, and has never been resumed.

In 951, service was established to the Five Sisters subsector through Biter (1526), Caladbolg (1329), and Flammarion (0930). That service was suspended in 1107 when the Fifth Frontier War started, and resumed in 1111.

Scheduled Service
Al Moral's 53 ships should mean that with perfect traffic, each world would be visited by a new ship once every week. As a practical matter, the convolutions of the Al Morai route system make ship visits somewhat less frequent - one ship visits each world once per four weeks (with a 50% chance that it is going in a specific direction).

Starport Installations
Al Morai maintains starport facilities (under the control of its Markets Division) at worlds along its trade routes. With a few exceptions, Al Morai serves only class A and B starports , and facilities are maintained only at such starports .

In order to keep its routes open for their full length, Al Morai has found it necessary to establish facilities at the class C starports on Carey (2726) and Roup (2007). These installations supply refined fuel for At Morai ships and provide all of the facilities that are present at other Al Morai installations. The fuel and repair facilities are exclusively for the use of Al Morai, and effectively upgrade the class C starport to class B for Al Morai.

Overhaul Facilities
Al Morai maintains its own overhaul and maintenance facilities for its fleet of cargo carriers. One shipyard operates at Mora (3124), where Al Morai also has its head office. The other operates on Al Morai's wholly-owned planet, Shirene (2125). Both facilities operate at full capacity, overhauling one ship every two weeks.

Al Morai Starships
Al Morai maintains a homogeneous fleet of 53 Type MK Mora-class cargo carriers . Officially, these are classed as merchant couriers. The quantity 53 allows one ship to be present at each world along Al Morai's routes, as well as one ship in maintenance at each of the two overhaul facilities.

Al Morai also protects the ships on their routes with a squadron of four Route Protectors. Cruising the trade routes on a random basis, these ships maintain an armed presence for the line and act as a deterrent to piracy against Al Morai.

Merchant Ships
Al Moral's Mora-class ships are named for the worlds on the company routes, for example, Regina , Fornice , Bendor , and Jewell . Two additional ships are named Imperial Glory and Imperial Reign.

These 3,000-ton ships are capable of jump-4 and 1 G. Cargo capacity is 1,200 tons; there are staterooms for 30 passengers.

Each ship carries three 40-ton shuttles for ground contact; the ship itself is unstreamlined .

 
Route Protectors
Al Morai's route protectors are privately constructed Gazelle-class close escorts.

The 400-ton close escort was originally designed as an anti-piracy vessel and is better adapted to that role than to large scale naval combat. In Al Morai service, the close escort is used as a piracy deterrent and as a fast messenger.

These 400 ton ships are capable of jump-4 and 4G. With drop tanks installed and dropped, jump-5 and 5G. With drop tanks not installed, jump-2 and 5G. Cargo capacity is 6 tons. There are eight staterooms for the crew of 12.

Each close escort carries a 20-ton streamlined armed gig , which is required for surface contact because the close escort is unstreamlined.

^^^^


Amber Zone

Traveller's Aid Society classification for a nation, world or system which presents a need for caution in dealings and activities. The amber zone may indicate chaos, upheaval, or xenophobia in local business, politics, society, or culture, or may be applied for other reasons. Travellers should exercise caution.

See also Red Zone,Travel Zone.

^^^^

Anagathics

Drugs that counteract the aging process. A regimen of monthly doses enables an individual to ignore the debilitating effects of advancing years. Because of the rarity and demand for anagathics, they are quite expensive and are often unavailable at any price.

An important ingredient in anagathics treatment is kesternet, a plant which grows only on St George (hex 2616) in the Vland sector.

^^^^

Ancients

The name given to a race of intelligent, alien beings who inhabited various locations in this portion of the galaxy approximately -300 000. Archeological evidence recovered from excavations of the few known Ancient cities indicates that the race destroyed itself during a 2000 year conflict known as the Final War, which left only ruined cities and shattered planets.

The Ancients were responsible for several major features within the region now occupied by the Imperium. Their warfare resulted in the large proportion of asteroid belts throughout this spiral arm. There is evidence that they created the multiworld rosette at Tireen (in the Vargr Extents). Scattered empty cities (most severely damaged by war) stand as evidence of their conflict; most, however, are under investigation by the Imperium and are not open to the public.

The Ancients are generally accepted as responsible for the dissemination of Humaniti within its current domain when they transplanted genetic stock from Terra to at least forty worlds across a span of some 360 parsecs. Similarly they were also responsible for the creation of the Vargr through the genetic manipulation of carnivore/chaser animals. Apparently they used Terran canine stock acquired at the same time as Humaniti.

See also Antiquity, Humaniti, Solomani Hypothesis, Vargr.

^^^^

Andory(Spinward Marches 0236 C695735-9)

Prime candidate for the Droyne homeworld. Discovered in 802 and placed under interdiction by Imperial Interstellar Scout Service. 

See also Droyne.

^^^^

Anglic

The official language of the Third Imperium. A distant descendant of Terran English, Anglic was the language of the Rule of Man (-2294 to -1776). Anglic remained a common interstellar language for trade and commerce during the Long Night. Its widespread use on the original worlds of the Third Imperium made it the natural language when the Imperium was established.

On many worlds, Anglic is only a second language used for system traffic control, commercial operations, and interstellar communications. Anglic is often called Galanglic (for Galactic Anglic). The Imperium has not been able to prevent the emergence of a wide variety of Anglic dialects. Interstellar communications, holocrystals, and recordings help to spread a uniform pronunciation of Anglic throughout the entire Imperium.

Within the Imperium, any Anglic speaker can understand almost any other, but isolated communities on worlds with little contact with interstellar trade lanes shift their speech patterns to form dialects. In addition, broad areas within the Imperium have established their own pronunciation patterns; accepted dialects include Rim (which includes Terra), Core (the central region of the Imperium), Riftian (the spinward frontiers), and Transform (the Antares region).

^^^^

Antares

Trailing region of the Imperium. The name is applied to a variety of places at the trailing fringe of the Imperium. Antares is a domain of the Imperium, a sector within that domain, and capital of that sector.

^^^^

League of Antares

An automonous region within the Imperium. The worlds were originally pressed into the Imperium in 89 during the Antarean Pacification Campaign. The worlds were occupied by the Julian Protectorate during the Julian War. When regained for the Imperium at the end of the war, the peace terms included a mandate that the League of Antares be given limited automony for control of trade, commerce, and internal affairs.

The automony of the League served as a model for the later establishment of the Solomani Automonous Region.

^^^^

Ansing Expedition

Famous exploration of the accessible reaches of the gas giant Annikkittar in the Pretoria system in 870 to 884. Extensive use of specially designed exploration vessels, protective suits, and high technology equipment allowed the Ansing Foundation of Vland to extensively map and explore the upper reaches of the gas giant's atmosphere.

^^^^

Antebellum

Literally, before the war. General historical term referring to the period within the Imperium before the Civil War, specifically 210 to 604.

The Antebellum period was characterised by expansion of the Imperium with large scale colonisation efforts, integration of numerous regions into Imperial society, and an overall mood of growth and exploration. With the end of the Antebellum period, the Imperium turned more attention inward and devoted resources to internal development and consolidation.

^^^^

Antiquity (Corridor 0816 A223420-C)
 
One of the best preserved Ancient sites in existence. Discovered in 385, the site is unique in that many parts of it are still operational. The biggest problem faced by researchers has been figuring out what things did, and how they worked. Many items are still a mystery. 

See also Ancients.

^^^^

Artifact

Any manufactured object. The term artifact is commonly used to refer to any object, item or group of related items produced by the ancients.

^^^^

Aramis Trace

The Aramis Trace is a group of eight worlds located in the Aramis subsector of the Spinward Marches sector, though some of the worlds are in the Rhylanor subsector, and one in the Sabine subsector of the neighboring Deneb sector.

@@@@aramistrace.jpg

^^^^

Aslan

A race of intelligent beings with an established interstellar dominion spinward and rimward of the Imperium; in addition large numbers have settled within the Imperium.

Aslan stand roughly human-sized, averaging 2.0 metres in height and weighing about lOOkg. They are descended from fourlimbed, upright, bipedal carnivore/pouncer stock originally adapted to a solitary arboreal existence.

The earliest Terran explorers saw in them a vague resemblance to the Terran lion, and they have been described (by Imperials) as lion- like ever since, although there is very little true similarity. The derivation of the word Aslan is unknown. There are two sexes, male and female. The most notable difference is the increased size and mane of the former. Females outnumber males by 3 to 1.

Aslan have a highly specialised dewclaw under each thumb which folds back jackknife fashion into a horny covering in the base of the thumb and palm.

A vast Aslan dominated region (the Aslan Hierate) lies far to rimward, but Aslan themselves have ranged well beyond its borders, with many settling within the Imperium and attaining full status as citizens. As such, they subordinate themselves to Imperial authority, although they have remained culturally separated from human society. Aslan serve in the Imperial armed forces; they achieve nobility; they pay taxes; they run businesses.

See also Aslan Border Wars, Aslan Hierate.

Image of a typical Aslan male:

@@@@aslan.jpg

^^^^

Aslan Society

The Aslan are a warrior race, proud, noble, and devoted to those in authority above them. An individual Aslan is usually a member of a family of from 2 to 12 individuals under a patriarchal leader. Several families will combine into a pride with one dominant family. A number of prides form a clan, with a dominant pride. Aside from military organisations and the ruling council (within the Hierate), the clan is the highest socio-political unit among the Aslan.

A deep-seated territorial instinct causes the aslan to have an inordinate (from a human standpoint) concern with land. For male Aslan, owning land is a major goal in life. An Aslan's stature is determined by the amount of land he (or her husband) controls, or by the amount of land owned by any higher lord the Aslan may be vassal to. The lowest classes of Aslan are landless, and provide the farmers, labourers, craftsmen, and factory workers. A holder of a large territory will often grant authority over it to vassals (usually sons, brothers, or male relatives by marriage) who administer the land in his name.

The sexes have very different roles in Aslan society. Males (in all but the lower classes) are concerned mostly with military operations, acquisition of territory, and political affairs.

Females are concerned with trade, industry, and the accumulation of knowledge. Upper class males have little conception of money and are literally incapable of functioning in a technological society without aid, so they are thus seldom encountered without the supervision of a wife, mother, or other female relative or employer.

For instance, a typical Aslan mercenary unit will be organised by a wealthy married female, who will then assign its operation, for a share of the proceeds, to an unmarried female relative. The battle commander and most of the troops will be unmarried males (many of them also relatives) hired with the promise of land grants (and the opportunity to gain honour and reputation in combat); however, staff, operations, supply, and intelligence officers will generally be female.

The extremely deadly nature of any combat between Aslan has led to a rigid, ritualised pattern of behaviour designed to reduce conflict. Aslan are very polite, and while most have learnt to be patient with non-Aslan, accidental fights still occur. Disputes between individuals are handled by the patriarchs; disputes between families are handled by the pride leaders; disputes between prides are handled by clan leaders.

^^^^

Aslan Calender

The Aslan calender is based on the period of Kuzu (the Aslan homeworld) around Tyeyo, its star. The Aslan ftahea (year) is 319.98 standard days in length. 

See also Aslan Border Wars, Aslan Hierate, Kuzu.

^^^^

Aslan Border Wars (-1118 to 380)

A series of conflicts between various Aslan clans and human systems as the Aslan expanded toward already settled human territory. The Aslan achieved jump drive late(-1999) and proceeded to expand into available territory in their region of space. Contacts along their trailing border necessarily resulted in friction with the human systems in that region.

Because the Long Night was already well under way by the time the Aslan encountered humans, there was no central human government to resist Aslan attacks. Since there was no united Aslan authority either, the sides were fairly matched, and numerous small wars erupted between Aslan clans and human splinter states, with alliances between the various powers constantly forming and dissolving.

The border between human and Aslan space remained relatively constant, with a few systems changing hands after each war. At this time some clans also launched raids into the interior of the former Imperial domains, where they conquered and settled worlds as much as 40 parsecs beyond the border.

Once the Third Imperium expanded into the region(circa 200), its superior organisation and technology gradually put an end to the Aslan threat. The final treaties, known as the Peace of Ftahalr, were negotiated with all the major clans. They established a buffer zone about 30 parsecs wide between the Imperial border and the region of Aslan control. There has been no war since then(380), although the Solomani have violated portions of the zone and incorporated it into their boundaries.

See also Aslan, Aslan Hierate.

^^^^

Aslan Hierate

Interstellar, multisector government of the many Aslan clans. Aslan society centres on the clan. Within the Hierate, the family structure of the Aslan and the governmental structure are the same. The highest governmental functions are performed by a council of twenty-nine clan leaders chosen from amongst the most powerful clans.

"the 29"(as they are known) have a quasireligious status and represent the essential unity of the Aslan race. To be chosen one of the "the 29" is the highest honour to which an Aslan can aspire. The 29 meet continuously on Kuzu to adjudicate interclan disputes and decide matters of group policy. No member of the 29 speaks for the Hierate as a whole, nor does the whole 29.

There are no Hierate armed forces; each clan has its own, and rarely act in concert with those of other clans. The Hierate itself can call upon military forces only in so far as the clans themselves agree to provide such forces. Even the minor forces conveying the 29's decisions are actually under the control of individual clan leaders.

Image of the Aslan Hierate borders:

@@@@aslanhierate.jpg

^^^^

Right of Assassination

A method of ascension to the Imperial throne which involves the assassination of the present Emperor, along with all heirs, by the pretender to the throne. The assassin can then claim the throne, subject to the approval of the Moot. Originally established in order to remove the Emperor Cleon III (also known as Cleon the Mad) when he demonstrated homicidal tendancies.

However, the murder of Empress Nicholle by Cleon IV in 475 led to a revival of the method, and ultimately to the Civil War in 606.

^^^^

Astrography

The science of mapping interstellar space. Basic to any science of mapping is a coordinate system. The system used by the Imperium is based on rings of longitude, rays of latitude, and parsecs. By convention, rays of latitude are measured from a starting point at Reference/Core, this world being at ray 0000 and on the ring 10 000 parsecs from the centre of the galaxy.

The system is highly Imperio-centric, and liable to break down beyond certain limits. However it admirably serves within the area surrounding the Imperium. Other states use different conventions, but the Imperial system is widely accepted by many client states. In ordinary discourse, a world is refered to by its name, sector and/or subsector. For example the home of the first Barracks Emperor, Olav, is Rhylanor/Rhylanor/Spinward Marches.

(See image of Known Space)

@@@@knownspace.jpg

^^^^

Atrake

Fruity wine produced on Zila from trakes. Atrake enjoys a reputation within the Marches as a quality wine, largely due to extensive marketing by Tukera Lines.

^^^^

Bad War/Good War

See Good War/Bad War.

^^^^

Barracks Emperors

Collective term describing the succession of emperors springing from military backgrounds(and usually seizing the throne by force) during the Civil War. 

See also Emperors of the Flag.

^^^^

Battle Rider

Non-jump capable ship intended to stand in the line of battle in space combat and carried interstellar by a battle tender. Two opposite views in naval architecture have dominated the design of the major battleships of space navies. The battle rider concept involves a large jump-capable tender carrying many (two to ten) heavily armed and armoured battle riders. The opposite concept is the battleship, a large jump-capable ship which carries the jump drives and fuel tanks internally.

The battle tender, so integral to the concept of the battle rider, is little more than a large dispersed structure with jump drives, fuel tanks, and basic controls. By dispensimg with the need for jump drives and associated fuel tanks on each of the riders, each becomes ton for ton more heavily armed and armoured.

It is generally held that, in any meeting between a battleship and a battle rider of equal displacement, the battle rider will triumph.

See also Battleship, Battle Tender.

^^^^

Battleship

Jump capable starship intended to stand in the line of battle in space combat.

The battleship concept involves well armed and armoured starships of massive displacement and capable of meeting almost any adversary. In battle against superior forces, however, the battleship can flee using its own jump drives. The opposite concept (of battle riders carried into combat by a battle tender) does not allow for the possibility of superior force; no matter how good a rider is, if it meets a superior adversary, it is placed in a posistion of winning or dying. Retreat is nearly impossible without losses.

See also Battle Rider.

^^^^

Battle Tender

Interstellar ship transport intended to carry battle riders into combat. Generally a dispersed structure, it transports a squadron of battle riders ready for immediate launch upon entry into a system. While riders press the attack, the tender stays in the reserve for protection. See also Battle Rider.

^^^^

"Behind the Claw"

A slang term used by inhabitants of the Spinward Marches, Deneb and Trojan Reaches sectors to refer to these areas. The term derives from a supposed resemblance between a claw and the Great Rift, as seen on maps of the Imperium.

Inhabitants of this region feel a certain pride in the designation, and it is used to imply that they share a camaraderie and common interest. The name was once used as the title of a popular news magazine with a
circulation area encompassing the three sectors named above. The term is rarely used by inhabitants of other areas of the Imperium.

^^^^

Belt Mining

The process of extracting useful minerals and other substances from asteroids. Asteroids fall into three basic categories for mining purposes.

Nickel Iron
Nickel-iron asteroids are reasonably dense, high-grade sources of metals, and are also useful to the shipbuilding industry as hull material.

Carbonaceous
The most common asteroid type, and also that with the lowest value. The best markets for such rocks are space colonies and largeistations which make use of the various useful elements which can extracted from them.

Ice chunks
Made up of frozen volatiles, including methane, water, etc. Hence, these "dirty snowballs" are a source of hydrogen fuel, and so support "ice miners". The main markets are starports and space stations which cannot, for one reason or another, use more convenient sources, such as oceans or gas giants.

None of these types are particularly valuable, and will never make a miner rich. However many asteroids, especially nickeliron types, contain rare minerals, platinum, lanthanum, etc.

Occasionally, an asteroid may be valuable for scientific, or even aesthetic, purposes. Finally there are the products of civilisations, from the week old wreck to the treasure trove of the Ancients.

^^^^

Belter

Strictly speaking, one who practises the profession of asteroid prospector and miner, usually working alone or with a small number of partners. Loosely, any resident of an asteroid belt (including citizens of civilised belts such as Glisten, some of whom have never been in a spaceship).

^^^^

Blistein Yards

The Blistein company of Glisten (Spinward Marches/Glisten) has achieved a high reputation for specialist starships of nonstreamlined types. Although constructing on a small scale compared to builders like Ling Standard, Blistein vessels are sought after due to their attention to customers' special requirements.

Blistein is the main supplier of private yachts to the Marcher Nobility, and this provides the bulk of their output.

Occasionally, however, a class of vessels such as the Leviathan merchant cruisers are turned out, and several powered planetoid types have also been constructed.

^^^^

Boat

Any defensive non-starship. In general, the term boat is reserved for craft produced for local defensive operations. While non-interstellar in nature, they are heavily armed and armoured.

Also, any small craft used interplanetary. See also Gunboat, System Defence Boat.

^^^^

Brzk

Archduke of Antares. Brzk's great- (to the eighth) grandfather, Admiral Soegz, was a loyal supporter of Arbellatra in the final years of the Civil War.

^^^^

Byssal

The most prominent creature living in Nasemin's stormy seas is the Byssal, a very large and nasty predator that is the source of an anti-inflammation drug which has so far defied economical synthesis. 
Nasemin's population is primarily occupied with chasing down byssals and excising the gland in which the drug is concentrated. The byssal hunters operate in small crews aboard specially constructed submersibles. Much skill is involved in searching for the predator in the ocean depths; the actual capture process is short but dangerous. 

@@@@byssal.jpg

^^^^

Capital (Core/Capital 2118 A586A98-F)

Central world of the Imperium and seat of government since its founding. Situated in the centre of the Imperium, Capital's astrographical posistion has proven of prime importance as a communications hub, a cultural centre, and an industrial focus.

^^^^

Centaurs

Name commonly applied to the K'kree, because of their resemblance to a mythical Terran creature. 

See also K'kree.

^^^^

Children of the March

A fleet intruder (later frontier cruiser) of the Azhanti High Lightening class. Tail number 6355. Laid down 095- 994. First flight 117-997. Displacement 60000 and heavily armed.

The Children of the March was unusual in this class of ships primarily for its method of finance. The boost to subsector ecomony created by the award of starship construction contracts is always important enough to make all areas of the Imperium vie for the privilege. At the time of the bidding invitations, the Solomani Rim War (990 to 1002) was burning on the other side of the Imperium; there was little chance that the Spinward Marches would receive a contract.

The Duke of Regina, speaking for the Marches, proposed that the marches fund one additional ship from its own resources, on condition that the Marches would receive a portion of the total run. The school children of the worlds within the Marches contributed their lunch money, at a quarter credit each, for the ultimate funding of one ship, and it was named Children of the March in their honour. Reportedly, some backwater schools districts still collect for the "Starship Fund".

^^^^

Church of the Chosen Ones

A fanatical Vargr sect which believes that the Ancients not only "invented" the Vargr race by genetic manipulation of Terran carnivores, but that the Ancients also returned to the Vargr several times and improved the race to the point that it could take its rightful place as the leader of this part of the galaxy. Some Church members even believe that the Ancients will return to bring this about. The Church has waned in influence since its founding 200 years ago, but it still has followers on many worlds. 

See also Vargr.

^^^^

Ciencia Iphegenia
(b. 1088)

Grand Princess of the Imperium, daughter of the Emperor Strephon and Empress Iolanthe. As heir to the Iridium throne, Grand Princess Iphegenia has been educated from birth to eventually assume the mantle of authority for the Imperium. Her early fascination with the sciences prompted an extensive interest in the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service, which considers her its patron.

^^^^

Civil War
(606 to 622)

Fought between various factions within the Imperium for control of the bureacracy. It had its origin in the strain on communications within the Imperium caused by the long time lags dictated by the very size of the Imperium. To cite one cause, however, would be simplistic. The diverse backgrounds of the many constituents of the Imperium had its effects, as did rivalry for power by major naval and military commanders and a lessening in the Imperium's expansionist tendancies.

The spark which started the Civil War came from the First Frontier War (589 to 604) in the Spinward Marches. Communication lags and a lack of preparedness forced the Marches to conduct most of the war on its own with| little additional help or support from the Imperium. Grand Admiral of the Marches Olav hault-Plankwell forced the war to an end and found solid support for a new government. Marching on Capital with his war fleet, he forced an audience with Empress Jacqueline I, supposedly for recognition of his war effort. In the course of the meeting he personally murdered the Empress, and then proclaimed himself Emperor by right of fleet control. The ensuing power struggle lasted through 18 years and 17 emperors.

The fighting in the Civil War was of two varieties: fringe battles for power bases, and central battles for power in the Core. The fringe battles were fought throughout the Imperium as rival factions recruited forces. Once any power block built up enough strength to make victory seem possible, the forces were moved to the Core and used to either seize power or to wrest it away from someone else.

But there was also a cheaper, easier route open to many. The dynastic crisis of 244 had produced a precedent for assassination of the emperor if he or she overstepped the bounds of legitimate activity. The concept was introduced to legitimise the elimination of Cleon the Mad and was never intended for any other purpose. Nevertheless, in the turmoil of the Civil War, assassination was introduced and accepted, at least by those utilising the technique, as a way of promoting a succession in government.

The line of Emperors during the Civil War came mostly from naval officers, and they are collectively called the Emperors of the Flag. Of these seventeen seven were assassinated and ten were killed in battle; the line was ended by the person sometimes considered the eighteenth Emperor of the Flag - Arbellatra.

During the course of the Civil War, the Outworld Coalition (of Zhodani and Vargr) saw that their defeat in the First Frontier War at the hands of Olav need not be permenant. They attacked again in the Second Frontier War (615 to 620). Their defeat in that war had greater effects than they would know. Grand Admiral Arbellatra Alkhalikoi managed the meager forces of the Spinward Marches against the Coalition and forced a second defeat.

Arbellatra's strategy after the war was (like Olav) to march on Capital and seize power. She, however, did not make the mistake of seizing the throne. Instead, she defeated the putative emperor and then took possession of power, holding it in trust for a rightful successor. She held the post of regent for seven years while a search for a member of Jacqueline's family could be found to take the throne. In the stability that followed with her as regent, she made an impression on the Moot and succeeded in establishing a broad power base. Ultimately, the Moot approached her to take the throne herself, an end which was probably in her mind all along.

With the end of the Civil War, the Imperium entered a period of renewed expansion and consolidation. The express boat system was established to enhance government, commercial, and private communications; the Solomani influence in the Imperium was lessened and replaced with a more cosmopolitan policy; renewed efforts at interior development of existing Imperial territories provided a new focus for the nobles of the Moot.

See also Emperors' List, First Frontier War, Moot, Outworld Coalition, Second Frontier War.

^^^^

Clan Severn

A Rhylanor based shipbuilder, with associated facilities on Jae Tellona and Margesi. The Rhylanor yard concentrates on filling Naval contracts, while civil and merchant operations are dealt with on Margesi. The Jae Tellona facilities engages primarily in maintenance and overhauls, but is also capable of constructing some of the simpler components for the other yards.

^^^^

Client State

An independent political unit which has elected (or had forced upon it) the patronage of a larger political unit.

This relationship is generally mutually beneficial and is essentially commercial in nature. That is, the political or defensive ties which may be part of any patron-client relationship are ultimately intended to promote trade between the two.

^^^^

Confederation

Group of independent states, worlds, or systems united for specified purposes while generally retaining more freedom of action than the members of a federation. Also known as a league or alliance (especially of princes, nations, states, worlds, or systems).

^^^^

Corridor

Imperial sector containing 267 systems dramatically split by the Great Rift; 69 systems lie rimward of the Rift and 149 systems form the coreward third of the sector. Corridor is named for its role connecting old, well-established Vland sector with the frontier sectors Deneb and the Spinward Marches. The name Corridor dates from about 140 and has displaced the old Vilani name (Eneri, rough translation: "star salad") for the sector.

^^^^

Coyns

Of the rare artifacts recovered from Ancient sites, the most common are coyns, small disks of metal engraved with various symbols. Their specific use is unknown. It may be that the objects served as money, jewelry, mystic focii, or some other unknown purpose.

Coyns have been found in various precious metals such as gold, silver, platinum, iridium, and even monadium. Sets range in size from six to thirty-eight pieces and are considered desirable to museums throughout the Imperium. Each coyn has a scrap value of Cr400 (if gold); to a museum, the value is closer to Cr4000.

@@@@coyn.jpg

^^^^

Crisis of '99

Albert Croale, in his book Almost Disaster presents a hypothesis that the Third Frontier War (979 to 986) occurred two centuries too late. After reviewing the progress of events in the spinward reaches of the Imperium from the antebellum period to the late seventh century, Croale then analyses the rise of the Psionics Institutes, their growing public acceptance, and their spreading power. Finally, he presents that a straight projection of events would predict a resurgence of the Outworld Coalition, increased hostilities, and a Third Frontier War.

Instead, his hypothesis as stated in his book indicates that the Psionic Suppressions (800 to 826 and beyond) were a massive manipulation of the population of the Imperium, a form of psychohistory, intended to eliminate the power of the institutes.

Preparations were ongoing for war, and the Imperium made representations of strength (in 799) to the Coalition. It backed down.

But the pyschohistory project went wrong and resulted in widespread rejection of psionics as a whole within the Imperium to the point that even the government had difficulty in using the science of psionics for its official purposes.

^^^^

Cruiser

A ship capable of independant operations and of support of the main line of battle. Cruisers are intended to fulfil two diverse missions- in battle, they support and reinforce capital ships which are present and which form the main line of battle, generally from the flanks, and they perform seperate operations, often acting as the centre of task forces which have no capital ships. Cruisers are also put to use as independant ships.

^^^^

Currency
Imperial

The basic unit of legal tender in the Imperium is the Imperial credit. Individual worlds may issue their own currencies, and those currencies may or may not be acceptable on other worlds. Similarly, corporations and megacorporations may issue scrip, and its acceptance outside of the corporate environment is a matter of conjecture. But Imperial credits are accepted everywhere in the Imperium and many locations outside of it.

Imperial credits are almost impossible to counterfeit because of their unique method of manufacture. Plastic fibres are combined under high temperature and pressure and extruded as a rectangular bundle of great length. The different coloured fibres form the pattern of the bill. It is not printed but actually made a part of the structure of the note. The bundle is sliced into paper thinness, and a 14-digit alphanumeric is added for uniqueness.

Credit bills are issued in 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, 1000, and 10000 credit denominations. Plastic coins, manufactured in a similar manner in various shapes, are issued in quarter (a quart), half (a demi), one, and five (a bec) credit denominations.

Imperial credits can be bulky in large enough quantities. Bills measure 75 x 125 millimetres; 1000 bills stand 50 millimetres high and weigh 500 grammes.

^^^^

Darmine

Cultural region in Zarushagar sector. Darmine had a separate but submerged cultural identity within the First Imperium and happily threw off that domination when the it fell. Allowed to flourish by the Rule of Man, the community of worlds survived the Long Night with little harm.

The first Darmine Corporate, an economic consortium, existed from -1643 to 100 and covered about five subsectors. This interstellar common market came to an end during the Ilelish Pacification Campaign (76 to 120); indeed, the Darmine Corporate was the major focus of that campaign.

The main world of the Darmine region is Ishag ( Lias / Zarushagar 1323). A peculiarity of that world is that the natives do not use an "ian" or "er" suffix.

^^^^

Darrians

Darrians are a minor Human race, native to Daryen/Darrian (Spinward Marches 0627). 

Intelligent minor race of Humaniti from Darrian ( Darrian / Spinward Marches 0627). The race is not native to the world, but was placed there by the Ancients about 300,000 years ago. 

Physiology & Environment 
------------------------
Darrians are Humans who have developed independently on Daryen. Some Solomani blood is evident as Solomani traders encountered Darrian in -1511 and provided them with sufficient technology to explore the subsector. 

Physiologically, Darrians sport a number of adaptations resulting from their homeworld's environment. However most are not apparent at a glance. The noticeable differences lie in their golden pigmentation, slight build, and pointed ears. Their biology remains closely enough linked to allow interbreeding with the Solomani. Ethnic Darrians usually display a stoic, tolerant air. 

The Darrian physiology is a result of adapting to the alien environment. Darrians are generally tall and thin, averaging just over 2m in height and 78kg in weight. Their most significant adaption is the ability to digest a normally indigestable amino acid native to Darrian. They are poorly insulated as they do not develop subcutaneous fat layers very readily. Instead, their metabolism adjusts quickly to the available food supply, whether feast or famine. This adjustable internal "furnace" allows Darrians to be comfortable in a much colder climate, as long as food is available. 

Protomelanin skin pigmentation protects Darrians from ultraviolet radiation, without the need for acquiring a tan. It absorbs UV light without darkening in response and controls Vitamin D production in any amount of sunlight. Usual Darrian skin colour is golden or greyish tan, and their hair is white or light-toned. Intermarriage with Solomani immigrants (largely of Semitic stock) introduced somewhat ruddier skin tones based on melanin pigments or darker hair, but only one or the other skin pigments occur, not a mixture. 

The low gravity of Darrian means that, on average, Darrians are weaker than Imperials. However, they have faster reaction times and acute sight and hearing. Dexterity is highly valued along with mental agility, and most educational systems in the Darrian Confederation attempt to develop both. 

Certain Darrian traits have been traced to retroviruses present in the environment. A few were able to meld successfully with Terran genes and produce favourable adaptions. For instance, Darrians can metabolise and thrive on a high concentration of ozone in the high altitudes of their atmosphere. 

Nearly 40% of Darrians are left-handed or ambidexterous. Equipment designs reflect this by being neutral as to handedness. The larger than average bridge between the two halves of the Darrian brain may be a cause for this trait as well as a factor in inventiveness and mathematical ability. Musical talent is also widespread. 

Their homeworld is Darrian (Spinward Marches 0627). 

History & Background 
--------------------
The Darrian Confederation is an ally of the Imperium, and has been historically opposed to the Sword Worlds and the Zhodani Consulate. 

Darrian (Sophont) Culture & Society (Ethnology)
-----------------------------------------------

The Darrians have a very tolerant society with inhabitants from many different cultures, who practice many different philosophies and religions (belief systems). Confederation inhabitants are known for their focus in scholastic and technological activities. 

One of the primary Darrian values is a strong belief in curiosity and the scientific method. Pursuant to this value, Darrians have formed many different academic institutions, and it is a rare Darrian urban area that isn't a university town. Even some very rural areas maintain significant institutions of learning. 

Darrian society is characterized more by individual's avocations than their vocations. Darrians have a keen fascination with all sorts of knowledge, encouraged by their educational system. Many Darrians develop an avocation of research, selecting a broad topic of interest and spending a lifetime following that topic. 

Darrians differentiate between original and secondary research. Original research usually requires extensive equipment and supplies. Even when published, results are often not understood. Secondary research is an analysis of published information in a search for new correlations and conclusions. Many Darrians have composed at least one analysis of existing research; some become experts in their field. Every secondary researcher on Darrian dreams of making a world-shaking discovery by taking two or more published pieces of research and using them to produce wholly unexpected or previously unsuspected results. 

Darrian Social Organization 
---------------------------
POPULATION CENSUS: As of (1110), the Darrian Confederation compositionally consists of a blend of races: 60% Darrian, 20% Solomani, 8% Aslan, and 12% assorted other human races. 

Government & Politics 
---------------------
An association of worlds, a Confederation, inhabited primarily by members of the Darrian human minor race, settled during the period -1137 to -927. The Confederation, consisting of 21 worlds, lies spinward of the Sword Worlds in the Spinward Marches. 

The Darrian Confederation contains 18 worlds, all within the same subsector (...as well as another 3 worlds in a different subsector), and has a population of 17.19 billion. The Darrians control some 18 worlds known as the Darrian Confederation in the Darrian Subsector of the Spinward Marches Sector. The current capital is Mire (Spinward Marches 0527). 

See Darrian Confederation for more information. 

Language & Letters 
------------------
The Darrian language, known as Te-Zlodh, or Te-Zapet, originally the language of the Zlodh Basin is the common language spoken by the people of the Darrian worlds. 

Calendar & Timekeeping 
----------------------
Very little is known about how the Darrian form a calendar or mark the passing of time although it is assumed that the Darrian calendar is based upon the planetary rotation of their homeworld. 

Technology & Trade 
------------------
The Darrian maintain a technological level of expertise between TL 10 and TL 15. Some Darrian lead researchers have even begun to make breakthroughs classified as TL 16. 

Scientific knowledge and research are the primary exports. Tourism also plays a significant role in their economy. 

Darrian merchants and traders are well-known throughout the Third Imperium and beyond. 

Military & Intelligence 
-----------------------
The Darrians maintain local constabularies and a private military. The Darrian Navy is used to ensure the safety of their territory. 

The Darrian Confederation is an ally of the Third Imperium, and has been historically opposed to the Sword Worlds and the Zhodani Consulate. 

See Darrian Navy for more information. The Darrian 7th Armored Division is a classic example of their army units. 


Image of male and female Darrians:
@@@@darrian.jpg

^^^^

Darrian Confederation

Group of worlds in the Darrian subsector (Spinward Marches) settled by humans from Darrian (Spinward Marches/Darrian 0627 A463955-G) during the period 1137 to -927.

The current capital is Mire (Spinward Marches/ Darrian 0527 A665A95).

The Darrian Confederation contains 18 worlds within the same subsector and has a population of 17.19 billion. Darrians are humans who developed independently on Darrian. Some Solomani blood is evident from Solomani traders who encountered Darrian in -1511 and provided them with sufficient technology to explore their subsector.

The Darrian Confederation is a Client State of the Imperium. It has had long standing conflicts with the Sword Worlds. 

See also Humans.

^^^^

Delgado Trading
LIC

Originally a manufacturer of military hardware and widely known for their work in minaturisation, Delgado has extensive holdings in heavy mineral mining and refining, publishing, antiquities trading, and recently, the toy industry.
 Founded in 997, Delgado is the youngest of the megacorporations.

Stock Ownership: Imperial Family- 5%, Delgado family- 47%, Noble families- 27%, Private ownership-21%.

Image of Delgado corporate logo:
@@@@delgado.jpg

^^^^

Deneb

Imperial sector containing 385 systems lying beyond the Great Rift; named for the sector's brightest star, Deneb.

Deneb sector was fragmentarily settled by both Vilani and Vargr during the latter years of the First Imperium, but major developments of the sector only took place after Third Imperium Scout Service explorations located major resource worlds in quantity.

Industrial worlds that exploited those resources soon created trade routes and commercial ties that linked the Imperial core with the Spinward Marches.

Deneb sector is primarily Imperial. The Imperial border runs just within the coreward edge of the sector, and scattered Vargr systems (as well as non-aligned systems and client states) lie beyond the border.

^^^^

Digest Touring Award

Outstanding journalism award offered every seven years by the Travellers Digest magazine (a popular magazine with a wide circulation in the spinward sectors of the Imperium, available on either plastic vellum or electronic media).

The recipient, who must be a professional journalist living and working "behind the claw", is given honorary membership in the Travellers' Aid Society. (worth one million credits); he or she is then expected to travel through the region during the tenure of the award and to submit a feature article once every thirteen weeks. The intent of the Digest is to "promote understanding of cultural diversity within the Imperium". The most recent winner of the award, in 1100 is Akidda Laagiir an editor of the Mora World Review on Mora (Spinward Marches/Mora 0704 AA99AC7-F).

^^^^

Galactic Directions

North, south, east, west are insufficient terms for referring to directions within the galaxy. Instead, the following conventions have achieved widespread acceptance when referring to direction:

Toward the galactic core (toward Capital from Terra) is coreward; away from it, in the direction of the rim, is rimward. In the direction in which the galaxy is rotating (toward Regina from Vland) is spinward, and the opposite direction is trailing.

These directions are widely used in describing Imperial features and businesses. For example, the Spinward Marches is a Sector at the extreme spinward fringe of the Imperium.

Finally, within the Imperium, the term coreward is also used to indicate the direction of Capital, the Imperial core. There is some potential for confusion if the term is accepted out of context.

^^^^

Domain

Group of four sectors within the Imperium under the general control and direction of an Archduke. Since the Civil War, the importance of the Domains has been considerably reduced.

^^^^

Dresden
(b.1051)

Duke of Sanches. Dresden married Princess Lydia in 1092. They issued two sons (the twin princes, Varian and Lucan) in 1094.

^^^^

Droyne

Intelligent major race inhabiting scattered worlds within an area larger than the region of the current Third Imperium. The Droyne are a small race derived from winged omnivore gatherers.

They vary in size depending on caste but generally stand one metre tall (large workers and warriors can be larger than humans). The history of their evolution remains a puzzle because their homeworld is not known with any certainty.

Droyne society is divided into rigid castes determined when an individual reaches adolescence. The six castes of the Droyne each serve different functions within Droyne society. Although identical at the time of caste selection, caste members develop pronounced physical and mental differences by maturity. Different genetic programs are awakened by differences in diet and environment among the various castes. Young leaders, for instance, experience a nearly 30 percent increase in brain size in the first year after casting. The following are descriptions and definitions of castes:

Workers
Manual labour and mundane ordinary activity are not too smart and are temperamentally suited to contentment with ordinary labour and subservient tasks.

Warrior
Trained for combat and possessing comparatively well developed muscles and reflexes, the warrior is the security troop, the marine, and the policeman of the Droyne culture. They are common in frontier bases, and less numerous in civilised areas.

Drone
Drones have a variety of purposes in Droyne society. They perform a reproductive role which makes them parents to Droyne young, and they have a role in the ceremonies which determine caste for maturing young. In addition, drones comprise a sort of middle management caste, which is responsible for many of the routine functions in business, trade, and administration.

Technician
This caste is the science-orientated portion of Droyne society and is concerned with both research and practical implementation of technology.

Sport
Although the caste system of the Droyne is rather rigid, the sport is the deliberately accepted exception to caste structure. Sports are special individuals who cross caste lines to become scouts, messengers, representatives, hunters, prospectors, and to take other occupations that require individual initiative or separation from Droyne society for long periods of time. A sport is the most commonly encountered Droyne outside their own worlds.

Leader
Leaders are required to manage and direct society. They are ultimately responsible for everything that the Droyne as a whole do.

Society
There is little individual freedom in Droyne society, and as a result, society and government join into one concept.

Workers work. Leaders lead. All of society is dedicated to continuing the existence that provides all members with food, shelter and the other amenities that make life enjoyable. In addition, there is little discord in Droyne society when things are running smoothly, as each member of society has its own function to perform. Only when disaster occurs is the group forced to strain.

A typical Droyne group consists of a variety of Droyne from the different castes. There will be many workers, few drones and leaders, and technicians and warriors based on current needs.

Each group will also have several sports, although they may not be present; instead they may be occupied with their own solitary tasks.

This is not to say Droyne are mindless. Leaders are-quite capable and responsible; warriors haveistrategic and tactical senses; technicians are inventive and clever. But all accept the central group as a part of their lives and work for its benefit above their own.

Image
-----
Droyne warrior.

@@@@droyne.jpg

^^^^

Dulinor

Archduke of Ilelish. The newest of the archdukes, appointed by Strephon in 1099, a decision which has since met with much controversy.

^^^^

Ebokin

Sophont octapedal race of insectoids race native to Yebab. Ebokin (singular: Eibokin) are bilaterally symmetrical and are built low to the ground, with eight legs and four small manipulative arms set close to the head. They are chilopodoids and bear a base similarity to the Terran centipede and related organisms.

The Ebokin have dual genders, with females less common (40%) but wielding the authority in government. Males suffer a -2 to Int, and tend to be slightly smaller than females. Males have the 'Craftsman' special ability. Adult female Ebokin average 0.8 metres tall, 1.5 metres long, and 130 kg in weight; males are somewhat smaller. They evolved from omnivorous hunters from rough-terrain fields, similar to the land near the present-day starport. Their hoof-like feet serve as effective bludgeoning weapons; unarmed combat with a trained Ebokin is deadly. Adulthood is reached at 14 standard years, physical aging at 30 years, and mental aging at 54 years. The average lifespan is 66 years. Ebokin society is a very conservative matriarchy, bound by strict, unchanging laws. Ebokin seldom leave their homeworld.

Yebab's highly alien ecology makes the world of particular interest for scientific research. The University of Regina's biology department maintains a research facility at Yebab's starport to study the world's many exotic lifeforms. In addition to Yebab Startown, other major settlements on Yebab include Shalam Kular, Aga Ra, Kekushima, Gidii, and Kirpa.

Human intelligence is often underestimated by Ebokin, due to their only having two arms and the Ebokin's reliance on four arms for complex tasks and language.

Ebokin are deaf, so their language is primarily sign language (with four arms; a two-armed pidgin language exists for the impaired, among which humans are typically classed), but have better olfactory senses than humans. 
Many Ebokin find the odor of humans to remind them of food. To some, this may be distracting. 
Their vision, on the other hand, is shifted far into the ultraviolet; communication between humans and Ebokin typically relies on assistive technologies. However, their "hands" can operate human equipment without difficulty.

The Ebokin have a TL-7 society. The Ebokin, while not having the ability to build starships themselves, do have the ability to purchase them from others, which they do, along with technical and maintenance support. 
A very small number of Ebokin merchants trade throughout nearby space and are particularly looking for technology training and acquisition. The Ebokin have strong ambitions to not remain a TL-7 culture for long. 


^^^^

Emissary

Ex-imperial Navy fleet intruder (formally the Sparkling Distress) of the Azhanti High Lightening class. Tail number 6379.

Laid down 138-997. First flight 121-1000.

Currently in Oberlindes Lines service in the Vargr Extents.

Somehow, Oberlindes managed to purchase the ship with its weaponry intact, which violates Imperial regulations. Thus, the ship is unable to return to the Imperium. However, the Emissary has operated successfully as an Oberlindes flagship in the Extents and has proven effective, by the implied threat of its presence, in protecting Oberlindes shipping from piracy. The Emissary is armed with a large spinal mount particle accelerator and considerable secondary weaponry.

^^^^

Emperors of the Flag

During the Civil War period (604 to 622), the Imperium was in the hands of a series of naval officers of flag (admiral) rank. These eighteen emperors achieved the throne through assassination, fleet action, political manoeuvres, and general mayhem. The year 619 particularly saw six emperors hold the throne, none of them for more than three months.

The succession of Emperors of the Flag began with the seizure of the throne by Olav hault-Plankwell in 604, which precipitated the Civil War. It ended with the naming of Arbellatra as regent of the Imperium by the Moot in 622.

See also Civil War.

^^^^

Empire

Group of independent states, duchies, nations, tribes, worlds or systems under the supreme rule of one emperor.

^^^^
Express Boat

Rapid communication ships which are designed to make optimum use of jump technology in communicating information within the Imperium. Because the Imperium is so large, ordinary communication must depend on ships travelling along established trade routes, making Regina nearly 4 years out from the Imperial Core.

The express boat (abbreviated Xboat) system, established originally in 624 and expanded to cover the entire Imperium by 718, cuts this communication time by nearly 75 percent. Selected locations along major trade routes are established as sites for express stations, which are orbital facilities which service and refuel the Xboats on their communication runs.

As an Xboat arrives in a system, it beams its recorded data to the express boat station, which then retransmits it to an Xboat standing by for a jump outsystem. Time between jumps is almost always under four hours and has been recorded at under seven minutes, making the speed of communication nearly the speed of jump (since Xboats carry jump-4 drives, speeds near four parsecs a week). In practise, this speed is somewhat reduced by the fact that trade routes do not follow straight lines and that not all jumps are made at jump-4. Nonetheless, the system achieves approximately jump-2.6 per week.

@@@@xboat1.jpg

^^^^

False War

See Fourth Frontier War.

^^^^

Federation

Group of states, worlds, or systems, each internally independent, joined into a union to which has been surrendered certain rights and responsibilities, most generally to do with foreign affairs.

^^^^

Filter mask

A mask used to prevent breathing in large particles. (examples: dust, ash, particulates, etc)

Image file showing a modern filter mask:

@@@@filtermask.jpg

^^^^

First Frontier War
(589 to 604)

The first of the border clashes between the Imperium and the Zhodani, which sparked the beginning of a continuing antipathy between the two major lines of humaniti.

With the conclusion of the war, Olav hault-Plankwell returned to the Imperial core with his war fleet and took the reins of government, dispatching Empress Jacqueline and thus starting the Civil War and the reign of the Barracks Emperors.

^^^^

First Imperium
(-4045 to -2204)

The first modern interstellar civilisation, politically and culturally dominated by humans originating on Vland. The jump drive was discovered on Vland in -9235. Immediately the Vilani discovered a number of interfertile and technologically primitive human races on worlds within 60 parsecs. These were gradually brought to a high technology state with Vilani help and assimilated into a loose interstellar community bound by trade and common culture.

Eventually, the client races themselves explored beyond the local sphere, contacting and trading with still more races. These new races gained their technology without being assimilated into the Vilani culture; the resulting increased friction caused a series of wars beginning in about -5400.

In response to the threat, Vland began tightening its control of its trade sphere, and finally organising it into a centralised state in -5273. This marked the beginnings of the First Imperium, although there was as yet no emperor. During the thousand year period of the Consolidation Wars, Vland conquered and absorbed its enemies until there were no longer any civilised states on its borders (except for a portion of the Vargr Extents, isolated from the Imperium by the Windhorn).

The last war ended in -4045, and the Vilani declared the establishment of an interstellar empire to govern all Vilani territory. Known as the Grand Empire of the Stars or Ziru Sirka, the Vilani dating begins at this point. With no exterior threats, the Ziru Sirka lasted for nearly 1200 years; at its height, which was attained soon after the end of the wars, the First Imperium contained 27 sectors and over 15 000 worlds.

However, the cost of maintaining centralised control over this vast expanse was cultural rigidity; exploration had ceased with the beginning of the wars; now scientific research slowed to a halt, and the beginnings of a hereditary caste system began to emerge. Civilisation was in decline.

As long as there was no exterior threat, the Grand Empire was safe; but gradually, despite all efforts, technology leaked across the borders. New interstellar states arose, and the Imperium could no longer afford to absorb them. Slowly, the Imperium lost territory along its coreward and trailing marches.

Then, in -2422, the Imperium was contacted along its rimward border by the Terrans, who had recently emerged into space.

Terran expansionism led to a series of interstellar wars which ultimately resulted in Terran conquest of the Imperium in -2204 and the founding of the Rule of Man.

^^^^

First Interstellar War
(-2408 to - 2400)

The first military engagement between the Vilani of the First Imperium, and the Solomani of the Terran Confederation. This began an on-again, off- again series of wars between these two major human races, which ended in the defeat of the First Imperium and the beginning of the ascendance of the Solomani. 

See also Nth Interstellar War.

^^^^

Flame Sculpture

A Darrian art form. Developed before the super- nova which destroyed interstellar interaction in that region for 700 years. Initially, techniques were invented to shape flame using gravitic technology, application being in such things as cutting torches. However, it was discovered that the flames could be molded, and artisans began practising this new art. Busts, landscapes, and other 3-D subjects were sculpted in flame, along with letters, company names and logos.

As with many Darrian artifacts, those created before the disaster (known as Early sculpture) are considered the best, and are all simple in form, with the rarest being sculpted while the Darrian worlds struggled to survive (known as Maghiz) Modern sculpture is far more complex than the older forms, and is less prized by art lovers.

^^^^

Flier

See Air/Raft.

^^^^

Fourth Frontier War
(1082 to 1084)

Also known as the False War.

Short inconclusive war fought primarily in the Jewell subsector (Spinward Marches sector) between the Imperium and the Zhodani Consulate. The war began with initial assaults by the Zhodani against Jewell and Regina subsectors stalled at the borders. Its final battle the Battle of Two Suns, 1084, was waged in the vicinity of Yres and Menorb and resulted in Imperial victory. The armistice was signed before instructions for the conduct of the war were received from Capital.

^^^^

Galanglic

Primary language of the Third Imperium. 

See Anglic.

^^^^

Gas Giant

A large planet with an extensive atmosphere of hydrogen and hydrogen compounds. Starships fuel themselves by diving into this atmosphere and skimming hydrogen from it.

Jupiter, in the Sol system, is an example of a gas giant.

^^^^

General Products
LIC

Largely concerned with heavy industry, General is a manufacturer of starships, non-starships and heavy machinery of all sorts. General is known for inexpensive products of adequate quality, but of late its starship division (particulary its military products) has been plagued with disaster.

The largest starship manufacturer in the Regina subsector, General has yards at Regina ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1910), Efate ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1705) and Pixie ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1903). General no longer produces ships for military use, instead concentrating on the more lucrative commercial market. The yard at Regina is capable of producing ships up to 5000 tons, while the subsidiary yards at Pixie and Efate are limited to 600 tons per ship, and devote most of their attention to annual maintenances.

The corporation was formed by the merger of a number of smaller manufacturing concerns shortly after the end of the Civil War, in the period 620 to 622.

In the Spinward Marches, General owns the shipyards on Regina and Efate, and holds the maintenance conccesion at Pixie naval base in addition to other insatallations. The last military contract held by these yards was for four Kinunir class vanguard escorts, all ill fated, and none presently in service.

Stock Ownership: Imperial family- 5%, Hortalez et Cie- 26%, Noble families- 35%, Private ownership- 12%, Antares Holdings- 12%, Others- 10%.

Image of General Products logo:
@@@@generalproducts.jpg


^^^^

Glea
(Central/Glea 2609 A667800-F)

Main coordinating centre of the Hive Federation since 410. Centre of the Glean Cluster, an unusually rich grouping of 16 Hiver-habitable worlds which are mutually accessible by jump-1 shipping.

^^^^

Good War/Bad War

The terms "good war" and "bad war" are expressions used by mercenary soldiers to differentiate between small-scale actions, not involving Imperial forces, and large scale conflicts involving Imperial forces, including wars between the Imperium and other states.

Small scale actions are viewed as good because generally the Imperial rules of war are observed, preventing, among other things, the use of nuclear weapons. Good wars are usually short and not particulary bloody. A unit in a tight spot need merely surrender and activate its repatriation bonds to be removed from combatant status. Even antiguerilla actions are good, under this classification, because of the fact that although most guerillas usually observe no restraint with captured government forces, captured mercenaries can usually be ransomed to serve as a source of income.

A war is bad when no such controls are in effect, and a mercenary unit will be subject to the full horrors of war. Mercenary units are understandably reluctant to accept bad war contracts, but they may be forced into them, especially when near the border areas.

^^^^

Grand Prince

Imperial titular designation of the heir to the Iridium Throne. Under Imperial custom, the eldest daughter or son of the Emperor becomes heir to the throne at the age of 12.

Elaborate ceremonies confer the title Grand Prince (or Grand Princess) on the heir and proclaim the information to the Imperium.

^^^^

Great Rift

Broad expanse of space with a very low density of stars lying on the spinward borders of the main region of the Third Imperium. The Great Rift is a pronounced impediment to to interstellar travel, and it constrains jumps to the Spinward Marches through the Corridor sector.

The Great Rifts is one of the many astrographic features which have provided long-term security for the Third Imperium. By its very nature, the Great Rift has made outside incursions difficult, which has made the interior of the Imperium a secure population centre.

^^^^

Groat

Herbivore native to Fulacin in the Rhylanor subsector.

Individual groats are harmless, but the outer members of a herd will attack any perceived danger in groups.

Groats have been transplanted to several worlds in the Aramis subsector, most notably Focaline.

The groat's shaggy hair (known as groatle) is the most obvious resources it provides. Once sheared, cleaned, and groomed, it has a softness and silkiness rivalling the finest synthetic. In addition, groatle contains metal salts, which has two beneficial effects. First, groatle cloth is proof against most small lifeforms (such as Terran moths) which eat other animal fibres.

Second, a simple chemical treatment brings out an iridescent, shimmering quality which is very attractive. Groats are also raised for their meat, which is highly prized by Vargr.

@@@@groat.jpg

^^^^

Guaran
(Ricenden/Guaran 0827 A565800-F)

Homeworld of the Hivers.

Guaran has no special political importance, although it attracts millions of tourists annually from all over the Federation.

^^^^

Gunboat

Ultimately, the distinction between ground, air sea and space craft disappears for military vehicles, and a single type of vehicle assumes all of the roles for system defence. Called gunboats, they are capable of extended operations in vacuum, atmosphere and water, ready to continue resistance to enemy action. Individually, the vessels are strongly armed, and can fight enemy ships while later supporting ground troops or bombing enemy installations. Further, they can continue resistance for long periods, hiding in oceans or local gas giants, and coming out only when there is promise of enemy losses.

Typically, a gunboat is fast, well-armed and well-armoured. It is capable of a wide variety of military responses, and has a high survival potential. Displacement is 200 to 600 tons. See also System Defense Boat.

^^^^

Gvegh

A language group (including Gvegh, Gvegh-Aek, Knithnour, Uedhu, and Taeksu), spoken by 60% of all Vargr in the Spinward Marches, Deneb, and the sectors immediately coreward. Thus, it is the most commonly encountered Vargr language.

^^^^

Hiver

Intelligent major race with a large federation trailing the Imperium. Hivers average 1.5 meters from ground to top of upraised head and weigh about 150 kg. Descended from omnivore gatherer/scavenger stock, they are the most alien of the major races. Hivers exhibit a modified six-fold radial symmetry; the body has a calcareous internal skeleton consisting of a series of rings supporting the limbs and a fused carapace protecting the brain and internal organs.

The head is a modification of one of the limbs and contains six eyestalks and six manipulative tentacles, plus paired infrared sensor organs. The other five limbs are identical (except for slight modifications of the hand opposite the head) and are used as arms and legs indiscriminately. Each limb ends in a six-fingered radial hand. Fingers are very flexible and have muscular suction cups on the lower surface about halfway to the tips. Hiver arms and hands are generally weaker than a human's but are very tough and difficult to injure.

The mouth (digestive opening) is on the lower surface of the body. There is no sound-producing organ, but Hivers do have three ears placed around the neck near the head. Hivers have only one sex. Reproductive cells are exchanged each time that Hivers meet, using the modified rear hand (the process has been termed by humans as "shaking hands"). The cells are kept in a reproductive pouch on the lower body surface where they conjugate and exchange genetic material. Once every forty days or so, a cell develops into a larva, which then drops from the parent's body.

Hive planets are mostly wilderness, and the larva enter the wilds, where most are killed. After about a year, survivors return to civilization, where they are welcomed into any nest and begin their education as citizens. Parental instinct in Hivers is very strong, and the young are adopted by the entire nest. (Note that this instinct applies only to the year old returnees; Hivers have no concern for younger larvae, and in fact they consider them minor pests).

Hiver language is a combination of arm/tentacle waving and physical contact. The written language is ideographic and is used as a standard language among the races of the Hive Federation. Hivers talking among themselves use all three aspects of language (gesture, touch and writing) at once, a process capable of great subtlety and sophistication, but unintelligible to the outsider.

Hivers are unique among the major races in that they had a complex culture before becoming sentient. Originally, they lived in the tunnels andbuilt-up mounds of a large (1000 kilogram) burrowing animal. In exchange for shelter, they gave food. They farmed fungus and foraged outside for decaying vegetation and dead animals as a source of food for the fungus.

Burrowers were allowed to graze the in the farm tunnels. Hivers ate the fungus and whatever fresh food they could find outside. Intelligence arose as the outside environment changed, forcing the foraging parties to travel farther to discover new sources of food and fertilizer; foragers advanced from simple scavenging and gathering efforts to complex cooperative efforts of hunting and trapping live game.

Today, fungus remains the staple of the Hiver diet; fungus growing is a highly developed art. Most buildings retain the beehive shape and large underground tunnel complexes of the original burrowers, but they are constructed by machines; the burrowers (known as snohl) are now reduced to the secondary function of keeping the tunnels clean. Hiver attachment to them is essentially irrational; they just feel more comfortable with snohl around.

Society
Hive society is highly individualistic. The term "Hive" results from an early Human misconception which stems from the appearance of the Hivers' building and tunnel complexes. Nests contain from five to five hundred individuals, who are usually centered around some common endeavor.

While one hundred is an average size for nests (and was the size in precivilized times), larger groups may come together for some civilized purpose such as large manufacturing companies or universities. Small nests are usually spaceship crews or isolated research parties. A young Hiver will spend its first fifteen years in its home nest; thereafter, nest changes may take place as often as a modern human might change jobs.

Because of the nature of their reproduction, Hivers never experienced the population pressures so important to human history. The population of the homeworld is now only a few hundred million, only ten times greater than it was in prehistoric times. Predators control the young; when the adult survival rate rises, thus increasing the number of young produced, the predator population increases proportionately and the balance is maintained. Space colonization arose not from pressures but from curiosity, with which Hivers are amply endowed.

The Hivers have colonized only those planets with climates most pleasant to themselves; if the planet has no predators that like to eat Hiver larvae, they are imported. Because of the high birth rate, a colony will rapidly fill up to its maximum population level of a few hundred million and will then stabilize. Hivers like planets of size 6 or less, with thin or standard atmospheres and unvarying climates. Hiver enclaves, for commercial or scientific purposes, are found on worlds of more extreme characteristics.

Hive industry and business excels at communications technology and robot construction. Major exports include artificial and computer languages, translators, and sophisticated electronic hardware of all types. Hiver mathematical systems are in much demand for their power and elegance.

^^^^

Hive Federation

Human term for a loose interstellar community dominated by the Hivers; Hive Confederation is also sometimes used. The Hivers have only one culture and one language; the Hiver genotype (with individual variations similar in degree to differences between individual humans of the same race) is also constant.

The Federation government (if such a term is at all applicable) is mostly concerned with maintaining the uniformity of the Hiver culture and species. This is accomplished by frequent reproductive embassies from one planet to another. Members of many different nests will shake hands with everyone nearby in a sort of farewell party and will then board a large embassy ship bound for a far-off world. Once there, they will meet with as many people as possible, shaking hands and exchanging news, art, gossip, scientific information, political views, and so on for about a year. They will then return home for another year-long round of parties, discussions, and handshaking.

Most disputes among communities are handled in these embassies; others, considered too urgent or transient to wait for an embassy, are settled by judges. There is a considerable body of Hiver common law and custom, and a judge is a person who has spent years in study of the law; judges' decisions are not necessarily binding and are open to compromise, but they carry a great weight of custom.

The discovery of alien races and their integration into society required a slightly more formal organization, which grew out of the coordinating body which schedules embassies. Two additional bodies were established: the Federation Navy and a development agency.

The Hiver parental instinct was aroused by the discovery of numerous intelligent species less fortunate then themselves, and work began immediately to lift the "children" to civilization. An early experience with an aggressive race led to the establishment of a system of quarantined worlds, denied entry to (or knowledge of) interstellar society.

Covert operations are in progress on quarantine worlds to modify overly aggressive cultures into acceptable members of the Federation, and several quarantined worlds have so far been opened since the beginning of the program. So far, no quarantined race is close to achieving interstellar travel on its own; public debate continues on what to do in such a case.

The navy is the main instrument of military force. Hivers came late to the concept of war and are more comfortable with hightech, long-range oriented violence; they dislike the personal approach of ground combat.

When ground forces are absolutely needed, other races of the Federation generally provide troops. Federation armed forces are essentially a deterrent force and are seldom used as an instrument of policy.

Other races of the Federation are equal partners in society, although the structure of society is Hiver generated, and those races able to adapt best to the Hiver way of life and customs have been most successful. All races participate in the embassies, although in a modified form.

Some associate species retain strong internal governments or police forces to regulate the aggressive tendencies of their members, but whatever solution is reached, all Federation member societies are nonaggressive.

Most worlds of the Federation have communities of several species; races inhabit the worlds they find most pleasant.

^^^^

Hoard of the Sky Raiders
(Collace Press, 1098)

Pseudoscientific tract written by Professor Jothan ~essandi, formerly of the Institute for System Studies on Collace. The book's controversial theories have provoked considerable interest in research institutes across the sector.

^^^^

Holiday Year

The year zero in the history of the Third Imperium, decreed by Cleon I to commemorate the establishment of the Imperium. Technically an aspect of calendar reform, the use of the year zero provides a central date point for counting years back into the Long Night and forward into the future of the Imperium.

The actual advantages of a holiday year are slight: centuries begin in the hundredth numbered year instead of the first numbered year, and the number of years between any two dates can be determined by subtraction.

More importantly at the time, the holiday year was used as part of the public relations campaigns which were impressing the authority of the Imperium upon local governments. The minor requirement of changing to the new calendar was used to determine the cooperation by those governments.

^^^^

Hortalez et Cie
LIC

Founded in 221 by Lucienne Hortalez, capitalised from family funds. Primarily a banking and investment house, Hortalez specializes in loans to planetary governments, mercenary unit bonding, underwriting of large scale projects of all sorts, and other fiscal activities. Hortalez is one of the major insurance houses in the Imperium. In some regions (especially the Spinward Marches) the firm acts as a mercenary clearing house.

Stock ownership: Hortalez family- 74%, Other corporations 15%, Imperial family- 5%, Other- 6%.

^^^^

Howood

Extremely dense, striated material obtained from the trunk of the Howood tree, a rare plant native to Pretoria (Deneb/Pretoria) and known to grow on several similar worlds in the Spinward Marches. The tree concentrates metals from the soil in their extremely tough bark. Howood is aromatic and its scent is especially pleasing to Vargr. It is also beautiful; the size, colors, and intensities of its rings and striations vary unpredictably with the characteristics of the environment in which the plant grows.

^^^^

Humaniti

Collective name for the human races, including the Solomani, Vilani, Zhodani, and others. Former spelling Humanity.

See also Humans.

^^^^

Humans

Intelligent major race dominating the Imperium, the Zhodani Consulate, the Solomani Confederation, and several additional interstellar communities. Humans stand approximately 1.7 meters in height and weigh about 100 kg. Descended from omnivore gatherers, humans developed intelligence in response to shifting climatological factors.

The most unusual aspect of Humaniti is the fact that Humans are present on many different worlds and stand at various levels of development on these worlds. The Solomani Hypothesis states that Humans evolved on Terra (Solomani Rim/Sol) and were scattered to many different worlds by the Ancients for reasons currently unknown. The result is that many different and parallel human races exist and coexist throughout known space.

The three most widespread human races are the Solomani (Humans from Terra), the Vilani (humans from Vland), and the Zhodani (humans from Zhodane).

See also Ancients, Humaniti, Solomani Hypothesis, Solomani, Vilani, Zhodani.

^^^^

Imperial Calendar

The Imperial Calendar was established at the creation of the Third Imperium as a universal calendar reform. Dates count from the founding of the Imperium, the year-"zero". Dates before zero are negative, dates after are positive. For example, Terra discovered jump drive in -2431. The Imperium was founded in zero. Emperor Strephon was crowned in 1071. The year is divided into 365 standard days, which are grouped in 52 weeks of seven days each. The lengths of days and weeks is a legacy of Terran domination during the second Imperium. Days are numbered consecutively, beginning with one. The first day of the year is a holiday and is not part of any week. For example, the first day of the twelfth century of the Imperium (holiday) is 001-1100.

^^^^

Icebear

The most well-known native species on Vreibefger/Lanth (Spinward Marches 2415) is the Icebear, a ferocious-looking shaggy quadruped that weighs 135kg. The icebears are herbivorous and generally harmless, but when angered can be quite dangerous.

@@@@icebear.jpg 

^^^^

Imperial Edict 97

This executive order is the enabling act for the use of Imperial warrants. Unusually obscure for such a wide ranging and powerful edict, it is nonetheless on file at all Imperial installations. The edict runs to 34 pages, much of it pure legalese; when distilled down, it proves very direct: an order to assist the bearer of an Imperial warrant with all the power you can bring to bear. Only the emperor has the power to issue these warrants. A similar edict (edict 3097) provides limited power to the Archdukes of the Imperium to issue similar warrants, although they are limited in their duration and territory.

See also Imperial Warrant.

^^^^

Imperial Guard

Eleven regiments of highly trained, superbly equipped troops dedicated to the protection of the Emperor and the Imperial Palace. Accepted as one of the elite formations of the Imperial armed forces, the Imperial Guard is a respected unit with a long and honored tradition. One purpose of the Imperial guard is to provide a symbol of political unity for the Imperium. One Regiment is drawn from each of the seven Domains of the Imperium, with each serving a one month tour of duty as honor regiment in rotation.

^^^^

Imperial Research

The worlds of the Imperium manifest a wide range of technological levels. The Third Imperium has always allowed its member worlds a wide degree of latitude, and it meddles very little in local affairs. With communication limited to the same speed as transportation, a single offworld query can involve weeks, months, or even years before a reply is received. ln addition, the cost of offworld transportation (both in time and money) tends to limit the interchange of information, the shipment of experimental prototypes and other such activities that are basic to the dissemination of scientific knowledge. Most worlds have found that simply purchasing advanced technology from a neighboring world is impractical. Not only is such high technology expensive, putting it to any cost effective use requires that the technology be understood. Consider: as useful as Tech Level 8 solid-state chip circuits are, they cannot be used on a large scale without the knowledge of electronics or the ability to provide supporting circuits (power circuits, circuit boards, and so on), which further implies knowledge of photoprocessing, and even crystal culture. In the final analysis, attempting to jump to a higher Tech Level without passing through any of the intervening Tech Levels just doesn't work; one must pass through the lower stages of technological development on the way to the higher Tech Level. Regardless of what the individual member worlds do, there are also certain large-scale interests in the Imperium which back research projects. Such research is generally privately backed (such as under contract by multiworld corporations), or it is sometimes performed in established Imperial Research Stations.

^^^^

Imperial Rules of War

To mitigate most of the potentially disastrous aspects of armed conflict, the "rules of war" evolved as an accumulation of unwritten concepts, which were established on a case-by-case basis. The rules of war have never been officially codified, both to prevent them being seen as an Imperial endorsement of war and to keep formal precedent from preventing Imperial intervention whenever the Imperium deemed it necessary. The main aim of the rules is maintaining the economic and military well-being of the realm. They give the Imperium the right to intervene only when local military action threatened this well-being. The primary causes of instability, as viewed by Imperial analysts, have been long-term economic dislocation and excessive extraplanetary influence.

A) long-term social or economic dislocation is suffered when a region loses its ability to carry on at its prewar level of activity.

B) Excessive extraplanetary influence is even more vague. Historically, the Imperium has tolerated the use of force as a necessary outlet for built-up political and social pressures. In such cases, a short war is deemed preferable to continuing tension, sabotage, political agitation, etc. However, attempts by extraplanetary forces, such as offworld governments or large commercial interests, to seize control of a world's affairs are beyond the scope of the "safety valve" rationale.

For example, the Imperium tolerates mercenary forces  which have been hired by local governments or other on-planet powers. It has even tolerated the provision of training cadre, arms, equipment, and so on (on a limited scale) by megacorporations , and even of fully-equipped striker units to local forces. However, when it has appeared that the primary burden for the conduct of the war has been carried out by an extra-planetary power, the Imperium has intervened, claiming the power is using the misfortune of a local dispute as a pretext for aggression.

"Assistance" is tolerated so long as it is deemed appropriate to the level of legitimate interest in the affairs of the world held by the extraplanetary organization. For example, the Imperium has often tolerated the provision by megacorporations of providing training cadre, arms equipment, etc. on a limited scale, and even of training fully equipped striker units to local governments. However, when it appeared that the primary burden for the conduct of the war has been carried by an extraplanetary power, the Imperium has intervened, claiming the power is using the misfortune of a local dispute as a pretext for aggression.

Unlike the above rules, one prohibition is clear and firm throughout the Imperium: the use or possession of nuclear weapons of any type.

^^^^

Imperial Stationary

The Imperial family has reserved (both by custom and by law) a distinctive design for its personal stationary. Well-known throughout the Imperium through its use for routine messages and for Imperial appointments, the form is cream colored and embossed with the Imperial Sunburst in gold. Both physical and electronic versions of the stationary are used.

Because it is used for Imperial appointments (even when issued blank for office use) all Imperial officials are familiar with the design and can readily tell physical forgeries from the real thing. Electronic versions are data encrypted with a special code lock and require a special hardware key to be unlocked, thus making even electronic forgeries difficult.

^^^^

Imperial Sunburst

The symbol of the Third Imperium established by Cleon (the first emperor) when the empire was proclaimed. Images show him standing before the original banner with a golden yellow sunburst against a black background, representing Capital's G-type star against black space. In 247, the Eliyoh (a nonhuman minor race) joined the Imperium. To that race the symbology was unimpressive. The Eliyoh vision centered in the far infra red, which resulted in distinction between the official colors of yellow and black being impossible. So Empress Porfiria declared that the symbol would have no official color. The original banner in the Imperial throne room is still black with a yellow sunburst. The Imperial Interstellar Scout Service uses a red sunburst; the Imperial Navy yellow; the Imperial Army black; the Imperial Marines maroon.

^^^^

Imperial Warrant

Instrument of power issued by the Emperor, or Imperial Dukes and Archdukes (to lesser extent). A warrant is a written or electronic document on Imperial stationary provided to trusted agents of the Imperium as a method of bypassing the bureaucracy.

Typically, a warrant is provided to an individual who uses the power it provides to accomplish some mission of interest to the issuing official. Missions may include establishment of colonies in areas requiring development, the assumption of military command in the midst of a crisis, and the unilateral establishment of new noble lines to administer provinces which have suffered from war or economic collapse.

For example, Emperor Strephon sometimes exercises his power through agents rather than directly through the bureaucracy of the Imperium. These instances are rare, although there is reason to believe that such agents are more numerous than it appears. 

See also Imperial Edict 97.

^^^^

Imperium

Standard reference to the Third Imperium.

(see Third Imperium)

^^^^

Institute for System Studies

Research foundation located on Collace (Spinward Marches/268 0407 B628943-D). Primarily concerned with historical, archaeological, and xenological research, the Institute maintains a wide range of facilities for all manner of other scientific endeavors as well. Founded in 988, the Institute is closely tied with Imperial research organizations. Teams from the Institute are employed throughout the sector.

^^^^

Interdiction

The Imperial practice of interdiction of worlds within the boundaries of the Imperium had long been a source of contention between liberal and conservative factions in the government. Interdictions must be approved by a member of the Imperial family, but generally such approval is given in response to a request from an interested service, which is almost always the Scouts or the Navy.

It is generally held that the Scouts recommend interdiction to shield a young or sensitive culture from the interference that trade and commerce will bring.

The Navy is held to be more vindictive in its recommendations, for they use interdiction to punish local governments or to hide its own mistakes.

Interdicted worlds are classed as having type-X starports . The Traveller's Aid Society generally awards interdicted worlds Red Travel Zone ratings.

See also Red Zone.

^^^^

Instellarms
LIC

Founded in 626, shortly after the end of the Civil War, by Axel Murdoch, a retired colonel of mercenaries. Taking advantage of inside contacts in the Imperial military, Murdoch was able to obtain large quantities of surplus military equipment at very low prices, but still costing billions of credits. Where Murdoch got his financing is not known.

Murdoch's connections with various mercenary unit commanders coupled with a willingness to ignore the Imperial regulations on mercenary warfare where profits were large enough enabled Instellarms to dominate the mercenary arms trade in the coreward sectors of the Imperium within ninety years, and in the Imperium as a whole within two centuries.

Manufacturing, buying, and selling military equipment of all sorts, Instellarms is a specialty supplier of mercenary units of all sizes and types. Agents of the firm can often be found on a battlefield, negotiating
the purchase of the equipment of the losing side before the battle is completely over. The company does not deal in interstellar vessels and chemical, bacteriological, or nuclear weaponry.

Stock ownership: Murdoch holdings, LIC- 32%, Hortalez et Cie 30%, Noble families- 8%, Ling Standard Products- 6%, Ichiban Interstellar, LIC- 5%, GSbAG- 5%, Sternmetal Horizons, LIC- 8%, Other- 6%.

^^^^

Iolanthe
(b. 1052)

Empress of the Imperium. Iolanthe, the daughter of the senior Duke of Gushemege sector, and member of a prominent Vilani noble family, married Strephon in 1079. Her primary avocation is the preservation of developing cultures within the Imperium.

^^^^

Iridium Throne

The symbol of the continuing line of emperors of the Third Imperium. The physical throne was originally an iridium construction on which the emperor sat. Over time, the term has come to represent not only the emperors throne, but the office of the emperor itself.

^^^^

Ishuggi

Archduke of Vland. Ishuggi heads one of the oldest noble lines in the Imperium, being directly descended from the original Archduke, Laerkigar (appointed by Emperor Artemsus in 72).

^^^^

Julian War
(175 to 191)

A war initiated by the Imperium, under Emperor Martin I, to annex the sectors of Meshan, Mendan, and Amdukan. After nine years of negotiation and diplomatic manoeuvering with the many confederations of the area (each a member of a larger confederation), Martin mobilized the Imperial Navy against these states. In the first three years of the war, Imperial fleets pushed deep into ,lendan sector, capturing the capital world of Lasla and several important industrial worlds. In 178, however, a minor bureaucrat in the government of the capital of a confederation in Amdukan sector had risen to power there and gathered around himself an alliance of neighboring confederations. This bureaucrat then proposed a defensive confederation encompassing all three sectors under attack.

This state, the Julian Protectorate (named for its founder), fought sporadic battles, doing its best to push back the Imperial fleets. Then, in 185, concentrated Protectorate fleets crossed the Lesser Rift in an end run against Antares, and with deep raids against the Imperial Depots in Antares and Ley sectors. With two local depots destroyed, the Imperium withdrew its fleets to protect its internal communication lines.

The Protectorate fleets then concentrated on the Antares cluster, a lightly defended group of worlds, which fell easily to their advances. Using these worlds as a base, the forces of the Protectorate carried the war into the Imperium. In 190 the Imperium lost several battles in attempting to retake the Antares cluster, and Martin I became convinced that the Protectorate could not be pressed into the Imperium, and gave up the fight. However, the war did not end there, as the Protectorate insisted on keeping a hand in the Antares cluster. The peace treaty included the establishment of the League of Antares as a compromise, ending the war in 191 on the Protectorate's terms.

^^^^

Jump Dimming

The transitions to and from jump space are momentous occasions during an interstellar trip. Following an old Vilani superstition, the pilot of a ship customarily dims the ship's interior and exterior lights before going into jump. Historically, this custom derived from the need for most of the ship's power to be diverted into the computer and jump drive systems, so that the jump drive can be guided into creating the jump field properly. Zhodani and Solomani pilots do not follow this tradition of 'jump dimming'.

Lights on a ship are typically dimmed for a period of about two minutes; the lights are brought back up to full strength as soon as the ship is in jumpspace.

^^^^

Jump Drive

The combination of equipment required to insert a starship into jumpspace and project a jump field. This consists of four components: A high-yield fusion powerplant which energizes the second component an energy sink array (usually constructed of Zuchai Crystals); when the jump point is reached this energy is transferred to a jump grid (usually of lanthanum) on the ships' hull under the control of a jump governor. The jump governor is a computer controlled device which energizes the grid in a sequence determined by the jump to be undertaken.

^^^^

Jumpspace

The basic concept of interstellar travel: that of an alternate space. Theoretically, jumpspaces are alternate spaces, each only dimly understood from the standpoint of our own universe. Jump is defined as the movement of matter from one point in space (called normal space) to another in normal space by travelling through an alternate space (called jumpspace). The benefit of jump is that the time required is relatively invariant, about one week. If the distance travelled is greater than can be covered in one week in normal space, then a gain has been made. Jumpspace makes possible enormous gains.

Jump is the term used to describe the movement of matter from one point in normal space (N-space) to another point in normal space by travelling through a different plane of existence, called jumpspace (J-space).

Normal space (N-space) consists of 4 dimensions; 3 of space and 1 of time. The era of modern physics dawned with the realisation that there are more dimensions than these; modern cosmology places the number at no less than 62. Most of these do not affect us, as they are only in force at the sub-atomic level, while the remaining 36 are accessable only by jump drive.

The various jumpspace dimensions are described by modern physicists as the "levels" of jumpspace. Each level has its own character, defined by the physical laws which operate there: these laws are known as the "weave". A level's weave ranges from very "loose" (easy to enter) to very "tight" (difficult to enter). Currently, we can only access 6 jumpspace levels, each of which is associated with an approximate distance travelled in parsecs. For example, a ship making a three-parsec jump is travelling through "level three jumpspace". The higher the level number, the tighter the weave. To date, only misjumps have encountered jumpspace level seven or higher.

Jump drives are also rated in parsecs; jump-1, for instance, indicates an ability to jump 1 parsec (that is, enter level one jumpspace). The jump drive opens the weave and tumbles the ship into and through a tunnel in the selected jumpspace level. The jumpspace tunnel is mathematically similar to an artificially created wormhole. Due to the unique topology of jumpspace, the "fall" through the tunnel takes about 1 standard week (150 to 185 hours), regardless of the distance travelled in N-space. If the distance travelled is greater than can be covered in one week in normal space, then a gain has been made. This time spent in the jumpspace tunnel is referred to as time "in the hole" by experienced travellers.

Ships in jump are untouchable and out of communication. Jumps are usually made at low velocities, because ships leaving jumpspace retain the speed and direction they held prior to jump. Minimum mass for entry into jumpspace is 100 tons.

Entering jumpspace is possible anywhere, but gravity perturbations make it safest to begin a jump at least 100 diameters from a star or a world. Jumps made between 10 and 100 diameters are considered hazardous and should be avoided. Jumps from within 10 diameters are often disastrous.

Oddly enough, ships cannot materialise in a gravity well. Any craft whose jump vector calls for it to break into N-space within 100 diameters is precipitated violently out of jumpspace. In some cases, this can cause severe damage to the ship or its crew.


Normal jumps take 168 hours (plus or minus 10 percent) to complete, regardless of the distance travelled.

Sometimes a jump goes wrong. Catastrophic failures (called misjumps) can destroy the ship and its crew. Other failures can destroy a drive or send a ship in the wrong direction. Some misjumps reduce a jump-6 to a mere jump-1, or convert a jump-1 into jump-10, 20, or higher.

^^^^

Jumpspace Institute

Originally established at Deneb to investigate interstellar jump drives. Financed initially by the Duke of Deneb, the institute has since become an arm of the sector government. Projects include training for starship engineers and naval architects.

^^^^

Commonality of Kedzudh

Loose interstellar government in the Vargr Extents. The Commonality dates from 1044, when several world governments joined in an attempt to suppress piracy. The Commonality government has limited powers of taxation; government institutions include a small navy/police force and a university. Individual worlds conduct their own interior and exterior relations.

^^^^

Kesternet

A plant which grows only on St George ( Vland / hex 2616). Kesternet is an important ingredient of anagathic drugs.

^^^^

Kirur
(Ruupiin/Thirty 1315 B863A03-F)

Homeworld and capital of the Two Thousand Worlds, the interstellar empire of the K'kree. The planet's oceans are extremely shallow and the world exhibits almost no volcanic activity, which is very unusual for a world of its size. Kirur has one large continent, which was conquered in prehistoric times by the current ruling clan; Kirur is one of the most politically stable planets known.

^^^^

K'kree

The K'kree (once called Centaurs by humans) are among the most massive of the major races and are the only one of the major races to be descended from herbivores. An adult K'kree stands about 1.5 meters at the shoulder and between 2.0 and 2.4 meters tall when standing erect. Weight averages 550 kg. They are bilaterally symmetrical, hexapedal, and homeothermic. They bear some resemblance to the centaur of ancient Terran myth, a trait noted by the earliest human explorers.

The arrangement of the manipulative organ (or hand) on the front limb is one of their most interesting features. Complex cartilaginous tubes permit the fingers of the K'kree hand to telescope out of the way when the hand is used as a weapon. Fully extended, the fingers are mutually opposable to each other and to the "thumb" which is in reality an extension of the ulna. The K'kree hand is very flexible but somewhat weaker in grasping power than a human hand.

The K'kree are covered with short gray or black fur and a dense black mane covering the head and neck and upper back of both sexes. Unlike Terran mammals, the young are fed partially digested, regurgitated food instead of milk. Males average 15 percent to 20 percent larger than females.

K'kree are extremely conservative in all aspects of their culture. Ceremonial military units (such as bodyguards) are armed with equipment which K'kree military technology outdated centuries ago, and (aside from modifications made necessary by the discovery of space flight) K'kree government has not changed significantly in centuries.

Because of their origins as plains-dwelling herd animals, the K'kree are claustrophobes; they cannot stand to be enclosed.

K'kree cities are clumps of low, broad buildings; the interior is never more than one story in height, which allows the sky to be visible. Internal building divisions are achieved with curtains and tapestries.

K'kree are extremely gregarious. They are never found alone, and will quickly sicken and die if removed from other K'kree for any length of time. Receiving a trade or diplomatic delegation from the K'kree means entertaining the entire family (one or more wives, servants, scribes, assistants, etc.) of the merchant or ambassador. The K'kree word for "my" refers to a possession of an individual's herd, not to that of an individual. Privacy and individuality are exotic and little understood concepts for K'kree.

Society: K'kree society is divided into castes. The system is a remnant of ancient times which no longer fits K'kree culture perfectly, but the K'kree stick with it because it is traditional. There are hundreds of castes, but distinctions are too faint for non-K'kree to understand. For simplicity, castes can be divided into three general groupings: noble, merchant, and servants. It is possible for a family to rise in caste, but this is a rare occurrence.

The lowest caste, the servants, has come to include farmers, factory workers and unskilled laborers as well as servants for all classes.

The next higher caste, the merchants, includes most skilled workers, scientists, engineers, technicians, scribes and government administrators, as well as merchants and businessmen.

Nobles are the governmental officials (the Krurruna and others), the high military officers, diplomats, and heads of trade and manufacturing concerns. Nobles are usually garbed in much more ornate fashion than the lower castes.

Every male K'kree must serve a term in the military upon coming of age. Warriors are drawn from all castes; rank in the military is determined by caste of origin. Upon completing the required term of service, a warrior returns to his original caste and position. Warriors are the only K'kree permitted to bear weapons, and they are further distinguished by their peculiar flared and horned helmets. They serve as soldiers, police, firefighters, and bodyguards for diplomatic and mercantile expeditions.

Female K'kree are casteless, and take on the caste of their father or husband. Females have no position in government or society other than the rearing of young.

Government
The basis of K'kree government is rooted in the traditional herd system. The basic unit of government is the herd, which consists of thousands of individuals of all castes and ages led by Krurruna (literally: bosses) under a single steppelord.

In recent times, most herds have been assigned specific geographic areas (several may be assigned to city or a single herd may be assigned millions of hectares of farmland). A number of herds are governed by a single "lord of steppelordes" (usually the ruler of a planet); and the K'kree race as a whole is ruled by a "Steppelord of the 2000 Worlds".

^^^^

K'kree Calendar

The K'kree calendar is based on the period of Kirur (the K'kree homeworld) around Gzang, it's star. The K'kree Pim!bigr (year) is 439.56 standard days in length.

See also Kirur, Two Thousand Worlds.

^^^^

Kuzu
(Dark Nubula/Kilrai' 1919 A876986-E)

Homeworld of the Alsan race and capital of the Aslan Hierate.

^^^^

Lab Ship

Using a 400-ton hull, the laboratory ship is a mobile base for scientific analysis and investigation. It mounts jump drive-D, maneuver drive-C, and power plant-F, giving a performance of jump-2 and I-G acceleration. Fuel tankage for 90 tons supports the power plant and one jump-I. Adjacent to the bridge is a model-2 computer. There are twenty staterooms and no low berths. The ship has two hardpoints and two tons allocated to fire control. No weapons are installed. There are three ships vehicles: two airlrafts and one 40-ton pinnace. Cargo capacity is 23 tons. Laboratory space equals 85 tons. One ton is waste space. The ship is unstreamlined.

The laboratory ship requires a crew of five: pilot, navigator, two engineers, and medic. Gunners and scientific research personnel may be added. The pilot operates the pinnace; the engineers operate the airlrafts. The ship can carry 20 passengers (35 if double occupancy) on a noncommercial basis. The ship costs MCr158.98 (including 10% discount for standard designs) and takes 14 months to build.

@@@@labship.bmp

^^^^

Lair
(Provence/Grnouf 2402 A8859B9-F)

"Homeworld" and capital of the Vargr Extents. Lair has never been accorded any particular status in the hearts and minds of the Vargr race, unlike worlds like Terra, Vland, Zhodane, Kuzu or Kirur. Lair was only recently united; several sections of the planet boasted independence until only a few years ago - which is unusual for the home world of a major interstellar race.

^^^^

Lancia

Cultural region in the Gushemege sector of the Third Imperium. The area was extensively ravaged during the Vilani Pacification Campaigns and afterwards resettled from the Vland sector under a special program sponsored by Makhidkarun.

^^^^

Lanthanum

A rare earth element, the first of the inner transition metals. Vital to the construction of the inner coils of interstellar jump drive units.

^^^^

Larianz

The Larianz are descended from four-limbed flyers and are native to Byret (Spinward Marches 2523). They stand approximately 1.2m tall, massing some 35kg on average. The upper limbs are large wings, which when folded are also used for ground locomotion (the Larianz effectively stand, and walk, on their "elbows"). The lower pair of limbs are modified for manipulation. 


@@@@larianz.jpg

^^^^

League of Suns

Imperial client state in the Jungleblut subsector of the Far Frontiers sector. Originally formed by a group of planets rebelling againt the Dominion of Alntzar in 819, the League has provided a stable island of peace and prosperity in the region for the past 300 years. The League is a loose coalition of worlds with governmental functions centered at Alzenei/Jungleblut. Treaty arrangements with the Imperium provide for Imperial use of local facilities for ships and sauadrons operating in the area in exchange for support against encroachment by surrounding Zhodani clients (including the remnant of the Dominion). 

A peaceful state the League's primary interstellar enforcement arm is the League Survey Service, a scout organization with military appendages. Most bases, except for that on Kokkelen, are strictly Scout operation centers. Kokkelen Base is home to the LSS naval arm, which has been stationed on Kokkelen for most of the League's history ans a check against Alntzar. Recent problems with the Descarothe Hegemony, however, have led to plans to update the scout base on Alzenei to co-equal status. 

^^^^

Lesser Rift

Broad Expanse of space with a very low density of stars trailing the main region of the Third Imperium. This rift is a pronounced impediment to interstellar travel, for it constrains jumps through the Empty Quarter. The Lesser Rift, like the Great Rift, has provided long term security for the Third Imperium by constraining access to the Imperiums Boarders.

^^^^

Llellewyloly

Sophont race native to Junidy (Spinward Marches/Aramis). Llellewyloly have five multi jointed limbs which function as hands and feet interchangeably; main sensory organs are also located on the limbs. The spherical central body is covered with long, coarse hair. Many body features are adaptations to the extreme temperature variations of Junidy's day.

Llellewyloly have a complex society with many dimensions of social precedence; the same individual may be entitled to high status in one situation and low status in another, and to make an error concerning propriety is a serious matter.

@@@@llellewyloly.jpg

^^^^

Loeskalth

Minor human race from Gushemege sector; known only from ancient First Imperium records. During the early stages of the First Imperium the Loeskalth culture absorbed a great deal of science and technology indirectly from the Vilani and founded a small empire which embraced, at its height, most of their home subsector.

About 5400 years ago, the Vilani consolidation destroyed the Loeskalth Empire and absorbed the civilization into the mainstream of Vilani culture. An aggressive and warlike race, the Loeskalth resisted but were ultimately overwhelmed.

^^^^

Long Night
(-1776 to 0)

The period of interstellar decline and anarchy between the fall of the Rule of Man (also known as the Second Imperium) and the establishment of the Third Imperium by Cleon I.

^^^^

Lucan
(b.1088)

Prince of the Imperium, son of Princess Lydia and Duke Dresden, the younger of Emperor Strephon's twin nephews. Born five minutes after his brother Varian, and so fourth in line to the throne.

^^^^

Lydia
(b.1052)

Princess of the Imperium, daughter of Emperor Paulo III, sister to Emperor Strephon. A naval officer, Princess Lydia carries out many of the formal duties of the Imperial Family with regard to the Imperial Armed Forces. She and her husband, Duke Dresden, also tour Naval facilities throughout the Imperium, presenting decorations and nobility patents on behalf of the Emperor. Born three years after her brother, the Princess is second in line to the throne.

^^^^

Main

A large grouping of systems forming a chain of worlds all within jump-l of another. This grouping provides a sort of "corridor" allowing jump-l capable ships to travel to any world along the chain without ever exceeding jump-l.

Many such groupings exist in the Imperium. Prominent examples include the Spinward Main in the Spinward Marches, the Vilani Main centered in the Vland sector, the Sylean Main in Core sector, and Antares Main originating in the Antares sector.

^^^^

Maghiz

The destruction of Darrian technology in -925 by the super-nova of Darrian's sun, Tarnis. Rumors claim that the Darrian's triggered this nova with their advanced technology. See also Darrian.

^^^^

Major Race

An arbitrary distinction based on the achievements of a specific intelligent race. A race which achieves interstellar travel (jump drive) through its own efforts is classed major; one which does not is classed minor.

To date, generally accepted major races include Humaniti, (Zhodani, Solomani, and Vilani, but not other examples), Aslan, the Hive, K'kree, Vargr, Ancients, and Droyne.

The Suerrat (a human race) are considered minor because their achievement of interstellar travel utilized generation Ships. Similarly, the Geonee were originally thought to be major race, but their development of jump drive was based on recovered Ancient artifacts rather than on true racial efforts. The Geonee dispute this prevailing opinion and hold the (generally unshared) view that they are of major standing.

The Droyne have been demonstrated to be major, for they have developed jump drive as far back as -7000. At present, however, they do not build or use jump drives, and remain voluntarily sequestered in their scattered systems to spinward.

^^^^

Makhidkarun

The origins of this company are shrouded in the mists of the Long Night. All that can be stated with certainty is that its foundation pre-dates the Third Imperium. Makhidkarun specializes in the communications and entertainment industries. The firm produces fine musical recordings of all types, two and three dimensional motion pictures, books, magazines, and art reproductions of all sorts. Its communications division produces a wide variety of data processing, storage, and retrieval equipment and the requisite software, along with various innovative robotics technologies. A gourmet foods division trades in all manner of rare and expensive foods, wines and delicacies. In the Spinward Marches, Makhidkarun has manufacturing and purchasing facilities spread throughout the sector, and also has extensive holdings through its transport subsidiary, Arean Transport. This line's routes travel across the sector and beyond into Foreven and Far Frontiers sectors; its starships (including the famous liner, King Richard) are renowned for their luxury.

Stock ownership: Imperial family- 5%, Noble families- 28%, Hortalez et Cie- 28%, Investment trusts- 25%, Private ownership- 14%.

^^^^

Marches Auxiliary Naval Service

In a border area such as the Spinward Marches, the IISS is responsible for exploration and survey in all the surrounding sectors. Thus, the mapping services provided to the navy in other areas of the Imperium is not up to standard in this area. To deal with this problem, MANS was established. Staffed by people from every type of service background, the Service carries out various survey, exploration, and reconnaissance missions, with a greater emphasis on the military importance of the information gained. The Service also provides several specialized scout squadrons to the Navy during war time.

^^^^

Margaret

Duchess of Delphi, first cousin, once removed to the Emperor Strephon. Margaret lives far from the social whirl of Capital, preferring the position of sector duchess at the head of the local hierarchy, instead of competing with nobles of similar precedence at the Imperial court. She recently married Count Blaine Trulla Tukera, assuring her of wealth and him of influence, and placing them at the pinnacle of society across two sectors.

^^^^

Mars

Popular term for the Mars Shipwrights, Gravengineers and Computertechs Union, a shipbuilding concern based on Mora (Mora/Spinward Marches 0704) and owning subsidiary yards on Maitz and Pallique. Named for its founder, Marcus Alexander Rameo Serenpindo, and the three major industrial unions amalgamated at its formation. In its earliest days, it concentrated solely on merchant vessels, and is widely considered responsible for the success of many Moran based merchant trade companies across the sector. Although the home yard on Mora caters almost exclusively to naval and scout construction contracts, the two auxiliary shipyards still produce merchants as a large proportion of their total output. Many of the Subsidized and Free merchant operations in the Marches use Mars vessels.

^^^^

Mayday

Corruption of a Terran term from an ancient language from that world. Accepted in the Imperium as a distress signal for vessels in difficulties.

See also SOS and Signal GK.

^^^^

Megacorporation

An extremely large interstellar corporation. When a corporation's scope of operations are such that it provides services to an area similar to that controlled by Imperial government, it earns the name megacorporation. Only thirteen such companies exist within the Imperium, along with another thirteen based in other interstellar states.

Because of their size, megacorporations have truly astronomical numbers of employees, shareholders, and profits. Their upper level executives labor at broad policy questions, and are largely out of contact with the day-to-day (and even year-to-year) activities of the corporation. The real power in the company lies in the hands of the regional managers (under whatever title they have) Who control the actual operations of the business. While they may control only a small fraction of the megacorporation's assets, they wield more power in some areas than do the representatives of the Imperial government.

A small number of Imperial regulatory agencies have power over the megacorporations, and the companies are subject to any applicable local taxes as well. Nevertheless, if Imperial sovereignty is not blatantly violated, regional managers can usually conduct their company' s business as they see fit.

Staggering in size, these organisations are so large that no one person can know everything they are concerned with at any given moment. Total shares of stock, annual profits, number of employees are all astronomical. Many are so large that different divisions of the same megacorporation can be working at cross-purposes. In most regions, megacorporations merely own the land their installations are located on; however, in some areas they control entire planets, either directly or indirectly. Their brands, trade names, and service marks have come to be universally recognised throughout the Imperium and beyond.

Most megacorporations are organised like smaller companies, with a board of directors, a president, and vice-presidents. However, the board and the higher-level executive officers of the company are largely out of touch with the day-to-day (or even year-to-year) functioning of the company. They only plan general policy and a few long-distance actions.

The most important executives, in terms of personal power, are the various regional managers (by whatever name they may be called). A regional manager may only control a small portion of a megacorporation's total assets, but may hold more power in some regions than the local representatives of the Imperial government. Provided they do not blatantly violate Imperial soverignty, regional managers can usually conduct their company's business as they see fit. A small number of Imperial regulatory agencies have power over megacorporations, and megacorporations are subject to local taxes. A direct confrontation with the Imperium would be bad for business, so intentional violation of Imperial laws is done only on a covert basis.

Only a very few commercial enterprises grow large enough to extend their activities to every corner of the Imperium. In fact, there are only thirteen megacorporations within the Imperium. It is difficult for a company to grow to the size of a megacorporation unless it has the protection of a suitably-sized government.

Some of the interstellar empires surrounding the Imperium have grown to the size that they can also support megacorporations. In addition to those within the Imperium, there are another thirteen megacorporations operating in the adjoining territories. In comparison, the largest of these is perhaps median-sized when compared with an Imperial megacorporation; the smallest is smaller than any of the Imperial companies.

All corporations engaging in interstellar commerce are required to possess an Imperial Charter . This is indicated by the letters "LIC" (Limited Imperial Charter) following the company name. Occasionally, corporations make use of old titles, such as Ltd, Inc, AG, SA, etc. This is done to indicate that the company pre-dates the Third Imperium (rarely the case) or to add quaintness and charm to the title.

A few Vilani megacorporations are still in business under their Vilani titles: Makhidkarun , Naasirka , Sharurshid, and Zirunkariish . These names, at least, date back to the First Imperium, and were the names of the Vilani organisations - half industrial trusts, half government bureaus - which controlled commerce in the Vilani Imperium.

The thirteen megacorporations within the Imperium are:

Name Major Interests

Delgado Trading, LIC Military hardware, mining, publishing. 
General Products, LIC Heavy industry, starships. 
GSbAG Starships. 
Hortalez et Cie, LIC Banking and investment. 
Instellarms, LIC Military equipment. 
Ling-Standard Products Starship systems, mining. 
Makhidkarun Communications, entertainment, food, robots. 
Naasirka Computers, software, electronics, robots. 
Sharurshid  Trade and speculation in luxury goods. 
Sternmetal Horizons, LIC  Mining, heavy manufacturing, energy supplies, food synthesis. 
SuSAG, LIC Chemicals, pharaceuticals, geneering. 
Tukera Lines, LIC Passenger and freight shipping, trade. 
Zirunkariish  Banking and investment, insurance. 


^^^^

Mercenary

The remote centralized government of the Imperium is possessed of great industrial and technological might, but it is also unable, due to the sheer distances and travel times involved, to exert total control everywhere within its starspanning realm. Extensive home rule provisions allow planets to choose their own forms of government, raise and maintain their own armed forces for local security, pass and enforce laws governing local conduct, and regulate (within limits) commerce. Defense has been a cooperative effort of local indigenous forces, which is stiffened by Imperial naval bases manned by extremely sophisticated forces.

Conflicting local interests have often settled their Differences by force of arms, with Imperial forces looking quietly the other way, unable to intervene en masse. Imperial forces have been unable to operate as a police force so as to not jeopardize their primary mission of defense of the realm. Only when local conflicts threaten the security or the economy of an area have Imperial forces taken an active hand, and then with overwhelming speed and force.

In this environment, the soldier for hire has found active employment. The tolerance exhibited by the forces of the Imperium have made the hired military force a practical matter. Imperial policy has allowed the marketplace to provide military force to those who can afford it; one line of thought has been that a hired military can be more effectively controlled if it gets out of hand, as opposed to nationalistic or politically motivated forces .

^^^^

Merchant Cruiser

A generic term applied to vessels specifically assigned to independent missions, the prime objective of which is market discovery and acquisition, either in isolation or in competition with other merchant operators. Design parameters for such vessels usually include a high level of weaponry and auxiliary boats in proportion to their cargo capacity and all possible back-up systems, along with high structural integrity.

^^^^

Minor Race

An intelligent race which has not achieved jump drive through its own efforts. For most races, this classification is appropriate. Many are contacted before they have reached a technological level capable of even considering jump drive, thus permanently prejudicing their potential.

Indeed, the shock of such a classification, and the realization that this classification pervades interstellar society, is sufficient to relegate a race to a permanent role as shopkeepers and accountants. Some slump, while others violently resist the classification. The fact that the categorization is informal and arbitrary, and tends to elevate those already in power has made resistance difficult, if not impossible.

^^^^

Monadium

Impenetrable bluish-gray metal used as the basic construction material by the Ancients at the site on Antiquity (Corridor/Ian 0816). It has defeated all efforts to determine its exact composition; some experts believe it contains titanium. Even modern tech level 15 plasma and fusion weapons have been unable to penetrate it.

^^^^

Moot

The Imperial government's only deliberative body. It has few powers and rarely exercises them. In theory, the Moot includes all Imperial nobles of baronial or higher status, but most nobles do not find it convenient to travel to Capital, and so many of those seated hold proxy votes. Large blocks of these votes can be wielded by a single influential noble.

Technically, the Moot is supreme in the Imperium, but its power is extremely limited. In practice, its deliberations are advisory to the emperor, and he is wise to heed them. The Moot has only one power; to dissolve the Imperium. When this power is brought to bear, it compels compromise between opposing factions.

When an emperor dies, abdicates, or otherwise becomes unfit for office, the Moot becomes important as the validating body for the new emperor. It has the power to examine the qualifications and credentials of the heir apparent and, in unusual situations, to reject him.

The Moot holds its sessions in the Moot Spire, which, at 1.75 kilometers High, is the tallest building on Capital. By tradition, the Spire is the only building allowed to tower above the Imperial Palace, which is 4.25 kilometers away. Elevators with gravitic compensators can speed visitors from bottom to top in 18 seconds. At the top of the Spire is the High Moot, where select committees hold the most private deliberations.

^^^^

Naasirka

Naasirka specializes in the manufacture of information storage and processing equipment and software, computers, and other complex electronic devices. Their robots are the most commonly found of any company within the Imperium. The firm is a Vilani megacorporation of uncertain lineage, but it is known to have been in business prior to the founding of the Sylean Federation. Naasirka is the largest supplier of communications equipment to the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service's X-boat branch.

Naasirka was a late-comer to the Spinward Marches; until recent expansions, it owned only a few facilities on the sector's trailing border, such as the shipyard on Aramis (Spinward Marches/Aramis 0710), and robotics factories on Rhylanor.

Naasirka is the largest robot manufacturer in the Imperium. Its robots rarely use innovative technology, but their aggressive marketing staff has placed more robots than either Makhidkarun or LSP, Naasirka's two largest competitors. Old Naasirka introduced the Rashush line of robots, the first non-military line, 200 years after the Rule of Man was established. It is still marketed today. Naasirka retails a standard model TL 15 servant robot with INT 5 and an EDU 1 for Cr77,500. Its useful life is 85 years.

Naasirka was a Vilani megacorporation, in business prior to the founding of the Sylean Federation . Beyond that, Naasirka has an uncertain lineage.

Interests: Information retrieval hardware and software, robots, electronics.

Home Port: Tauri ( Vland / Vland 1817).

Stock ownership: Imperial family- 4% Investment trusts- 24%, Noble families- 23%, Hortalez et Cie- 11%, Other corporations 14% Igsiirdi family- 13%, Private ownership- 11%.

@@@@Naasirka.jpg

^^^^

Naasirka Endowment

A high tech scientific establishment which combines hands-on research with educational internships. Areas of interest include computer hardware and software. Although the administrative offices are on Vland ( Vland / Vland 1717), internships are sponsored throughout the Imperium.

The endowment, as can be deduced by its name, is sponsored by Naasirka.

^^^^


Naval Base

Port facility for the support, maintenance, repair, and refit of naval vessels. Planetary surface facilities are generally provided for vessels of 1000 tons or less; orbital facilities handle larger ships.

A naval base has several distinct parts to it; each part helps in the accomplishment of the overall mission of the base. The typical naval base is composed of an orbital berthing area, a surface berthing area, a maintenance section, and an administrative headquarters. Berthing areas provide locations for ships to lay over, for a day or for months. All berthing areas include provisions for refueling from storage tanks or fuel lighters.

Maintenance sections at naval bases vary from base to base. Where such a section would be redundant to the local starport shipyard, it is small, and repairs or alterations are carried out under contract by the local facility. Where adequate facilities do not exist, the naval base itself may have a large maintenance section capable of extensive repairs and refits. Maintenance is performed on ships on the world surface or in orbit as necessary.

The administrative headquarters handles the day-to-day operations of the base, as well as its paperwork (including allocation of funds, distribution of personnel, and disbursement of maintenance and repair contracts). The naval base is not a tactical unit. It has no battle forces of its own, and it does not exert control even over local system defense boats (which are under a separate command). The naval base is responsible for supporting the
fleet and Keeping it in optimum condition for its combat missions.

^^^^

Naval Depot

Main support base for the Imperial Navy and hub of its support and supply system. The navy maintains a network of 19 depots to support its fleets, generally one per sector. Depots are placed in systems where they will be close enough to the expected action to be useful, but far enough back to ensure that they will not be captured.

A naval depot is a huge harbouring area for starships, naval personnel, and supporting services. It typically occupies an entire system and thus has unlimited starship berths. It is designed and stocked so that it can withstand isolation from outside contact for years at a time. Facilities, materiel, and personnel are extensive enough to repair and resupply a large fraction of the fleet simultaneously. It provides construction and repair facilities, and produces and tests experimental ship prototypes. In short, a naval depot is the focus of the Imperial Navy's system of bases .

A naval depot provides three distinct types of services to the ships of the Imperial Navy: ship services, personnel services, and training.

The main task of a naval depot is to provide ship services to the Navy. For ships in service, these include periodic inspections, annual overhauls, repairs of operational damage, and upgrades to new equipment. In addition, these cover the design, construction and testing of new ships. Depots keep on hand a stock of repair and replacement parts that would be unavailable at any one place anywhere else in the Imperium. In wartime, the main task is to repair battle-damaged ships and return them to service. In peacetime, the main task is the design, construction, and testing of ships. A large staff of naval architects (the cream of the area) and construction personnel is maintained at every depot. In emergencies, the depot's construction yards can be pressed into service for production of military ships.

Depots are a natural assignment for large numbers of naval personnel. Any skill required by the Navy can be found at a depot. Support services, administration, dependant support, housing, recreation, and technical services are all needed on a continuing basis at the depot. With such a large staff available, a depot becomes a natural replacement centre, providing crew rotation and replacement from its own assets as needed.

Each depot is also given the task of providing training for naval personnel. The many services provided by the depot make it uniquely suited to train personnel for those services. As a result, a depot maintains an extensive training establishment, providing in depth training for all aspects of starship technology.

Since a depot is obviously a very sensitive installation, security is tight. An extensive array of both entry and exit codes are employed to ensure no unauthorised vessels enter or leave the system. Contingents of marines and SDBs are stationed throughout the system, and are constantly ready for action.

Depots serve as focuses for naval efforts: supplying a fleet's every need, providing construction and repair facilities, and producing and testing experimental ship prototypes. A depot generally occupies an entire system. Facilities, material, and personnel are extensive enough to repair and resupply a large fraction of the fleet at any time. A depot may be isolated from outside contact for years at a time without serious setbacks. As depots cover large parts of a system, there is no distinction between orbital and surface berthing.

In peacetime, the main function of a depot is the design and testing of ships. A large staff of naval architects (the cream of the area) and construction personnel is maintained at every depot.

In wartime, depots serve as repair and resupply centers for the fleet. In emergencies, the depot's construction yards are sometimes pressed into service for production of military ships. Since a depot is obviously a very sensitive installation, security is tight. An extensive array of both entry and exit codes are employed to ensure no unauthorized vessels enter or leave the system. Contingents of marines and system defense boats are stationed throughout the system, and they are constantly ready for action.

There is usually no more than one naval depot per sector. Depots are placed in systems where they will be close enough to the expected action to be useful, but far enough back to insure that they will not be captured.

^^^^

Nobility

The foundation of interstellar government within the Imperium. The Imperium depends on nobles ranging From knights to archdukes to carry the chain of authority and the mantle of responsibility from the Emperor to the people.

^^^^

Nth Interstellar War

Any one of an indeterminate number of inter stellar wars fought between the Terran Confederation and the First Imperium during the Period -2408 and -2219. The First Interstellar War (-2408 to -2400) marked the initial clash between Terra and Vland. The peace that concluded the hostilities was both uneasy and short. The second through seventh wars were marked by seesaw exchanges of territory, mostly confined to the Dingir and Sol subsectors. These initial wars were fought, on the Vilani side, with only the forces available to the Vilani provincial governor; central government was preoccupied with other problems. This was fortunate for the Terrans, as Vilani power, even at this late date, was sufficient to crush the Terrans in short order had it been applied.

The Eighth War finally broke open the frontier and ended in the first major Terran victory. Finally, the Grand Imperium took notice, and dispatched major fleet elements to the area, but the time for action had passed. Terran invention of the jump-3 drive made the Ninth War a crushing victory for Terra and forced the Vilani to relinquish most of the Solomani Rim. Thereafter, the Terrans were almost constantly on the offensive.

In the centuries after the conclusion of the wars, no consensus could be reached in the academic community as to when the later conflicts began or ended; all were interrupted several times by armistices, cease fires, or shaky periods of peace (indeed, a new war would often break out along the front lines before the existence of a peace treaty could be communicated to the respective capitals).

Periods of warfare are lumped together or split apart depending on the historian's individual point of view, and a single war to one historian can be identified as two or more wars by others. The situation is complicated by the fact that for some of the years in question are sketchy. To clarify matters, an accommodation was arrived at which simply labels all interstellar wars after the Ninth with the indeterminate N. Proper usage calls for the war to be defined with the actual years being discussed. Many history texts use this system to refer to all the wars except the first.

The Nth Interstellar War (-2235 to -2219) ended the series when the Vilani Grand Imperium collapsed, as much from its own weight, age, and decadence as from Terran victories. The terrans moved quickly to occupy the remaining Vilani territory.

See also First Imperium, First Interstellar War, Rule of Man.

^^^^

Octagon Society

Established in 342, the Octagon Society was the first major distressed spacefarer assistance operation to appear in the Spinward Marches. The group thrived on public contributions and on some tax revenues for 150 years; then it collapsed in the late 400s when scandals emerged over the quality of shelter construction and the disposition of certain funds.

Society shelters were generally of an octagonal shape. Large hostels were established on major worlds, while smaller weather shelters were placed on frontier or unsettled worlds. The characteristic octagon-shaped buildings are still visible on various worlds, although none are still in use as shelters for distressed spacefarers.

The Octagon Society was dissolved in 499, and its assets were sold at auction.

^^^^

Off-dirt Rank

Mercenary jargon for the courtesy title major, applied to non-naval captains when aboard starships, to avoid confusion with the starship captain.

^^^^

Olympiad

Common translation of tleqazdijdiet, a Zhodani measure of time representing three Zhodani years (each approximately .75 standard years). An olympiad is used to denote the period from one set of psionic games to the next. The olympiad is used in the Zhodani calendar to mark dates, which are further subdivided by year, season and day.

^^^^

Oort Cloud

A spherical shell around most stars containing numerous small bodies of cometary material. A typical Oort cloud is about 0.5 to 1 light year from its primary and has an aggregate mass about that of Terra; density is thus extremely low. The main constituents of cometary bodies are ice and dust ("dirty snowballs"). Bodies in the Oort cloud are occasionally perturbed by collisions or by the influence of nearby stars into orbits which pass near the star; these form comets. The Oort clouds are named after the discoverer of Sol's, Terran astronomer Jan Oort.

^^^^

Orbital Terraforming

A process by which the immensely difficult and often dangerous task of transforming possible colony planets into more habitable worlds through forestation, detoxification and oxygenation of the atmosphere and hydrosphere, recomposition of the climate, etc. could all be conducted from the safety of an orbiting spacecraft through use of drones without the delay, expense or error of planet-bound human teams.

^^^^

Outrim Void

Colloquial name for the region to the rimward of the Marches consisting of many small empires and independent worlds. the region is largely unknown to the civilian population of the Imperium, and is regarded with suspicion by the average citizen due to its being a natural haunt for corsairs and any who wish to escape Imperial justice. Many Outrim worlds are believed to have been settled in the great Terran age of expansion known as the Rule of Man, and since isolated from other human contact, whilst others have retained links with either the Imperium or the Zhodani Consulate.

The region is largely unknown to the civilian population of the Imperium, and is regarded with suspicion by the average citizen due to its being a natural haunt for corsairs and any who wish to escape Imperial justice.

Many Outrim worlds are believed to have been settled in the great Terran age of expansion known as the Ramshackle Empire, and have since been isolated from other human contact. Often these worlds have reverted to low-tech societies. However, some worlds have retained links with either the Imperium or the Zhodani Consulate as client states.

The region forms part of the Trojan Reach sector.


^^^^

Outworld Coalition

Traditional name for the belligerent groups allied against the Imperium during the First and Second Frontier Wars. Commonly applied to any alliance of powers threatening the Spinward Marches and Imperial territories spinward of the Great Rift.

The original Outworld Coalition was formed in the early 500s at the instigation of the Zhodani Consulate. Vargr allegiances vacillated, but memories of the Imperial campaigns against certain Vargr states in the Corridor swayed some into membership. Zhodani as the major partner, contributed military aid and assistance (such as technicians). While some Vargr governments contributed personnel and naval units, other Vargr remained neutral or sided with the Imperium. The initial history of the coalition was one of continuing struggle for organization, as the Zhodani were continually occupied in establishing Vargr governments, and then maintaining them in power. The intent was for Vargr to raid the coreward edge of the Spinward Marches, especially Regina and Aramis subsectors, while the major thrust from Zhodani took Cronor and Jewell subsectors. The Vargr portions of the offensive failed dismally. Furthermore, the failure resulted in the collapse of the coalition.

The internal Imperial upheavals (the Civil War) which followed the First Frontier War (it was called just the Frontier War then) exposed a continuing weakness in the Imperium, and the Outworld Coalition reformed after a hiatus of five years. At the appropriate moment, the reformed Coalition again attacked the Marches, this time taking portions of Jewell subsector. Although the Vargr again failed to take any territory permanently, their performance as a whole was considerably improved.

Traditionally, frontier wars in the Spinward Marches have involved coalitions of Zhodani and certain Vargr states. the Sword Worlds have also joined the coalition at times.

See also First Frontier War, Second Frontier War, Third Frontier War, Fourth Frontier War.

^^^^

Oynprith

Language used between Droyne involved in interstellar commerce. Its origins are not well understood, but it appears to have survived as a formal language for quasireligious ceremonies. The language is assumed to have been the most common in whatever previous community the Droyne dominated.

For centuries, only the vast distances separating Droyne worlds from each other concealed the fact that Droyne worlds had a common language. That is not to say every Droyne spoke the same language; indeed, different Droyne communities spoke different languages, often very different languages. 

In interstellar commerce, Oynprith was soon discovered by Droyne to be a universal language among their race; as trade increased, Oynprith became more commonly used, finally reaching a status as the universal Droyne language.

All Droyne communities shared one common language  Oynprith, the language used in the coyn casting ceremony. Outsiders missed Oynprith simply because it was not used in public very often; it had a status as a ritual or ceremonial language, much like the status of Latin on Terra. 

^^^^

Pacification Campaigns
(76-120)

A series of economic, diplomatic and military operations directed at forcing membership in the Imperium upon those worlds which resisted the initial efforts to annex them.

Although the campaigns were predominantly economic and diplomatic in nature, the Imperium was not averse to using force when peaceful methods failed. Imperial battlefleets and ground forces rarely failed when brought to bear.

By 120, the pacification campaigns had ended, and the initial phase of the Imperium's growth came close.

Four specific Pacification Campaigns were undertaken, each by an archduke of the Imperium. The Vilani Pacification Campaign was targeted at portions of Dagudashaag and Gushemege sectors. The Ilelish Pacification Campaign was aimed at the Darmine region. The Antarean Pacification Campaign hit much of Lishun sector. The Sylean Pacification Campaign operated in Delphi and Fornast sectors.

^^^^

Pan Galactic Friends of Life

an influential pressure group, concerned with preventing damage to environments by intelligent life. Once considered a member of the lunatic fringe, they gained credibility with their successful defense of the declining herds of dawnsingers. Their most recent major victory was in forcing Seaharvester to accept low quotas for the slaughter of daghadasi.

^^^^

PDPT-beta

Chemical compound discovered by Seaharvester (now a subsidiary of SuSAG, LIC) scientists in the corpse of a prereproductive phase daghadasi (large water animal) some eight years ago. The full name of the compound, Cis-1,2 paradichlorotirethylaminoprocycloheptatrenyl-4-tricyclohexenebeta, is rarely used.

The chemical serves as the basis for a family of experimental broad-spectrum antibiotics which can be selectively "tuned" to wipe out specific types of bacterial, viral, and cancerous growths, while leaving adjacent benign growths untouched. Thus far, no synthesis of the chemical has been produced, and the ecology of the daghadasi homeworld was in danger of serious danger of becoming unbalanced, until the actions of the Pan Galactic Friends of Life persuaded SuSAG to take action.

^^^^

Peerage

The hierarchy of nobles within the Imperium.

^^^^

Phoenix Project

Reported plot by Solomani guerrillas on Terra to destroy Imperial forces occupying Terra. Imperial intelligence reported penetration of the project command in 1045, with subsequent compromise of its basic plans and dismantling of its structure. The Phoenix Project has supposedly born in the final years of the Solomani Rim War (990 to 1002) as Solomani leaders saw the possibility of their defeat and the loss of the homeworld to the invading Imperials. The project was said to have consisted of two distinct parts: prepositioned caches of Military goods to supply the coming uprising and a continuing program for the training of guerrillas.

The caches were concealed in many different places on Terra in areas calculated to preclude accidental discovery over the years. Each cache contained large quantities of munitions, weapons, vehicles, and medical supplies, all of varying technological levels so as to be of use regardless of the technical knowledge of the users. Each cache was hidden with its location entrusted to a single local family. These families were to form the core of the guerrilla forces when the rising was to take place.

A massive Imperial counter-guerrilla effort in 1040 to 1045 was directed at the discovery and destruction of the caches and the arrest of the families entrusted with the secrets.

Persistent rumors of two additional aspects of the Project-Lambda (a code word to trigger the uprising) and Omega (the reinforcement of the uprising by offworld Solomani) have been dismissed as baseless by Imperial officials.

Many historians believe that the extent of the plot was greatly exaggerated by Imperial authorities, and hold that it was little more than an extreme example of wishful thinking on the part of the Solomani leadership. At any rate, the Phoenix project no longer threatens the security of the Imperium, if indeed it ever did.

^^^^

Postal Union

A group of political units associated to a greater or lesser degree for the purpose of communication among citizens, businesses, and governmental units.

Nearly all star systems are members of one postal union or another. Governments cooperate along their borders in order to allow the efficient flow of communications between them. Members of a postal union forward mail through their territories (subject, of course, to local security needs, acts of War, and so on) to the proper addresses. On the average, communication is at the speed of the fastest available transportation. Within the Imperium, such unions often pay a voluntary tax to the IISS Communication Office in order to use their facilities for communications. Private companies have also been known to provide such services.

^^^^

Psionics

The criminal use of mental powers for the manipulation of matter and energy and for communication. It has been demonstrated that minds (human or non-human, conscious or unconscious, intelligent or unintelligent) contain some capacity to operate without apparent use of physical facilities. For an individual to seek training in such abilities is a criminal act.

Until circa -1000, psionics was little studied in most regions except on a disorganized level (parapsychology, the occult, spiritualism, and so on). It was known and practiced among the Zhodani and by some minor races, but it was by no means wide spread.

However, during the Long Night, many races, (human and others) turned introspective. As a result, many finally began to engage in serious research in psionics, which revealed much about the empirical nature of the phenomenon, although the principles involved were, and remain, little understood.

Even though it assumed scientific validity, psionics remained a backwater science until about 650, when it underwent a tremendous burst of popularity. Psionics within the Imperium reached its peak in the latter half of the 700s. In the 790s, however, the crest of popular opinion broke with the revelation of scandals within the Psionics Institutes; the result was the psionics suppressions (800 to 826), which shifted public opinion away from support of psionics.

^^^^

Psionics Institute

Any clandestine organization devoted to illegal training of individuals in the use of psionics talents. Active Imperial campaigns to eradicate the Institute have been pursued for over 200 years.

Organizations of this nature have existed since before the advent of space travel, but they attained prominence only during the Long Night, when reproducible scientific discoveries made psionics a teachable, learnable science.

In the Imperial ante-bellum period, psionics institutes were rare, and they were formed only on a few scattered worlds, which for one reason or another, had an unusually high rate of psionics talents appearing, or which encouraged psionics for social, political or commercial reasons. In the years after the Civil War, institutes were organized on most high population worlds within the Imperium. Psionics institute is a generic
name; each such institution was independently organized and maintained. Institutes were generally supported by that portion of the population which had psionic talents; since that portion has small, they were viable only on high population worlds.

During the psionics suppressions, the institutes' charters were revoked, and talented individuals were persecuted. In some cases, the individuals fled to assume new identities on other worlds; in others, whole families emigrated to the Zhodani Consulate or to other places beyond the frontiers of the Imperium.

Following the psionics suppressions, there were theoretically no psionics institutes remaining. In practice, however, illegal underground institutes are rumored to still remain on many worlds.

^^^^

Psionics Suppressions
(800 to 826)

Between 772 and 798, a series of financial, ethical, and moral scandals within the Psionics Institutes of the Imperium shifted public opinion against the institutes. At the same time, it became clear that a good number of the institutes were under the control of the Zhodani Consulate. In 800, the Imperium moved against the institutes by canceling their charters, jailing their leaders, and passing laws restricting the teaching or practice of psionics. Many institute figures went underground to espouse their cause in a type of guerrilla war.

The Psionic Suppressions had a profound influence on Imperial opinion. Over the course of 26 years, the Suppressions equated psionics with the Zhodani and established in the average Imperial citizen a distaste for both which continues to this day. The average citizen will admit to a general dislike of psionics, and if pressed, will usually state that psionics violates a persons right of mental privacy.

Image of Zhodani armor with psi blocker:

@@@@zhodani_armor.jpg

^^^^

Psychohistory

The science of historical prediction and macrosocial manipulation . The main thesis of psychohistory is that the action of trillions of individuals take on a fluidity and predictability which can be compared to that of molecules in a gas. The very size of the population being dealt with factors out individual peculiarities and allows the prediction of its behavior. With the ability to predict the reaction of a population to a particular stimulus comes the ability to manipulate that population, Psychohistorians reason psychohistory began as a combination of public relations/advertising techniques and behavioral science, and although its techniques have been put on a more rigorous footing, the basic principles are still not well understood. A number of minor experiments have confirmed the general validity of the science, but it was also shown to be too expensive to be of practical utility. Research continues at a small number of Imperial universities.

^^^^

Pyramid

Traditional construction form for developing cultures; considered to be the simplest form of large scale architecture because of its load-bearing strengthand ease of assembly. TL 1.

Pyramid structures of all sizes have been believed to serve as focuses for psionic (or cosmic) power, and are claimed to sharpen dulled edges, cure diseases, and generally work miracles.

Pyramids have been constructed on most worlds where the local culture haspassed through TL 1. Many examples remain due to the massive strength of the structure .

^^^^

Rachele Society

Secret Vilani supremacist group founded on Pretoria (Deneb/Pretoria 0405) by Zid Rachele in 992. Genocidal policies favoured by the group culminated in the attempted takeover of the Pretorian government in 1010. An attempt
at nuclear blackmail backfired when 26,000 people (including 1900 Rachelean commandos) were killed by a nuclear explosion after the Society seized Imperial Scout facilities on Saki (Deneb/Pretoria 0504). Zid Rachele disappeared in 1015 after escaping from the prison world Exile (Deneb/Usani 1928).

In 1103, Zid Rachele and the Rachele Society surfaced again in Lishun in a brief power play at Dynam Naval Depot (Lishun/ Masionia 1219). Rachele and his followers attempted the theft of several mothballed naval warships but were quickly defeated. Zid Rachele's vessel was destroyed in the battle.

^^^^

Rachelean Revolts
(1010-1011)

Major uprising on Pretoria (Deneb/Pretoria 0405) fomented by the Rachele Society, which resulted in martial law under the Imperial Navy since that time. The Imperium as a rule does not interfere with local politics, but their intervention was forced when a Scout base on Saki (Deneb/Pretoria 0504) was destroyed by nuclear weapons.

See also Rachele Society.

^^^^

Ramshackle Empire

Common term used during the Long Night to refer to the Rule of Man, also known as the Second Imperium. As the successor to the First Imperium, the Rule of Man took over the territories (and the problems) of its predecessor. Pro-Second Imperium histories contend that the Rule of Man delayed the inevitable collapse. Pro-First Imperium histories claim that the First Imperium was stagnant, but stable, and that the Ramshackle Empire actually precipitated the Long Night by looting subject worlds and promoting Terran superiority.

See also Rule of Man.

^^^^

Red Zone

The Traveller's Aid Society travel zone classification for a nation, world or system which is dangerous to travellers. In general, the imposition of a red zone classification indicates the location is quarantined, interdicted by higher authority, or at war.

Quarantine indicates that a dangerous disease is present and the danger of war is self explanatory, but interdiction requires further discussion. Interstellar governments often find it necessary to restrict access to worlds or systems for political or military reasons, and they do so by publishing interdictions.

Enforcement of interdiction varies with the reason for the restriction. Interdiction may be imposed on a world if it is a military base or other sensitive installation, for private reservations belonging to powerful families desiring seclusion, for developing societies which government has elected to allow to evolve in isolation, or for valuable resource areas being saved for later development or exploitation.

^^^^

Repatriation Bond

A document guaranteeing passage of an individual to a specified location upon completion of contract work or upon suspension of contract work for any reason. Repatriation bonds are guarantees given as inducements to workers who might otherwise be wary of leaving their own worlds with no assurance that they could return. They are most commonly used by mercenary units. Repatriation bonds are usually administered by a large financial institution which holds the necessary funds in escrow.

^^^^

Rule of Man
(-2204 to -1776)

(Also called the Second Imperium and, disparagingly, the Ramshackle Empire.) A short-lived interstellar empire formed after the conquest of the Vilani Imperium by the Terrans. The conquered territories were under military rule from -2219 to -2204. Vilani military forces were incorporated into the Terran forces. Terran naval officers took over key posts in the Vilani bureaucracy (which otherwise remained intact).

In -2204, the Terran Secretariat attempted to transfer control directly to Terra and to incorporate the conquered regions into the Terran Confederation. The commander in chief of the Terran Navy, Admiral Hiroshi Estigarribia, realised that the Confederation government could not possibly control the vast territories of the Vilani Imperium. He proclaimed himself Regent of the Vilani Imperium, and protector of Terra, so both states were now united in the Rule of Man. Nearly all the fleet sided with Estigarribia both because it was composed largely of colonials, who were under|represented in the Terran Confederation government, and because of Estigarribia's careful preparation. The Confederation was dissolved without significant resistance.

The Terran fleet headquarters on Dingir became the capital of the Rule of Man. The bureaucratic centre of the Imperium remained on Vland, although arrangements were undertaken to gradually transfer it elsewhere.

Upon Estigarribia's death, he was succeeded by his chief of staff, who crowned himself Emperor Hiroshi II. Estigarribia, even though he did not actually assume the crown, is therefore known to history as Emperor Hiroshi I.

Hiroshi II transferred all functions of government from both Vland and Dingir to a more centrally located world renamed bilingually Hub (Massilia/Ershur 0402). This world was to remain capital of the Rule of Man for the next four hundred years.

During the Rule of Man, large numbers of humans from Terra and its oldest colonies emigrated throughout the Imperium. People of Terran ancestry or culture (many of them assimilated Vilani) assumed positions of power on most worlds and became industrialists and administrators.

The problems of sheer size and scientific stagnation, which had brought about the fall of the Vilani Imperium, continued to plague the Rule of Man. The Vilani had coped with the problems of ruling a large empire by a rigid caste system with all citizens rooted permanently in their places, but this system could only last as long as there was no significant external threats. The Terrans did away with the system but were not able to replace it with a new social order. The destruction of the caste system swept away the foundations of society. Key industries fell apart as their workers became free to move elsewhere.

The -1776 date for the end of the Rule of Man is arbitrary and it notes the financial collapse of the central government which occurred when the Treasury at Hub/Ershur refused to honour a monetary issue of the branch treasury at Antares. The resulting lack of confidence within monetary circles marked the end of large-scale interstellar trade and of effective governmental power within the Rule of Man. Although the Imperium did not completely fall apart for many years, the Rule of Man had effectively ceased to exist as a viable interstellar community, and the period known as Twilight had begun.

The Third Imperium refers to the Rule of Man as the Second Imperium, which emphasises its own roots in the Solomani dominated Second Imperium and the Vilani dominated First Imperium. Anti| Solomani elements emphasise the failure of the Solomani dominated Ramshackle Empire.

^^^^

Rule of Terra

Solomani terrorist group active in selected regions of the Solomani/Imperial border. Violently anti Imperial even by the standards of most Solomani political groups, the Rule of Terra seeks to force the return of all "rightful Terran property" to Solomani hands through assassination and other acts of violence.

The organisation, although interstellar in scope, was apparently not a very strong organisation in the beginning; some of its claimed attacks have proven to be accidents, while others were the work of different dissident individuals or organisations.

The Rule of Terra's acts, although not its goals, have been disavowed by many other Solomani groups, including the Confederation government; in return, the Rule of Terra has attacked even Solomani populations, stating that "all who do not contribute to the Manifest Destiny of the Race are not worthy to be part of the Race".

Since the death of Strephon and the resulting Solomani incursions into the rimward reaches of the Imperium, the Rule of Terra organisation has apparently mushroomed in popularity. The group has claimed responsibility for many terrorist acts along the current Solomani/Imperium border.

^^^^

Rydel Expeditions

In 153 and again in 160, expeditions lead by Admiral Inesh Rydel tried to locate a useable jump route across the Great Rift from Corridor (rimward) to, Deneb. The first expedition originated from Sinta (Corridor 2037) and eventually arrived by various routes at Ashishinipar (Corridor 0931). Nearly a year was spent trying to find a way to go further to no avail. A second attempt, made by a different route ended on Ishirdu (Corridor 0338). This proved closer, but not close enough to Yoma (Deneb/Vast Heavens 3031), the closest possible world in this area of the rift.

More successful rift-crossing expeditions have been undertaken in recent years, most notably those of Kirshamii Riilam.

^^^^

SuSAG
Schunamann und Sohn AG
LIC (SuSAG,LIC)

SuSAG is involved in a wide range of chemical, pharmaceutical, and genetic engineering activities. SuSAG is the primary manufacturer of anagathics for the Imperium, and maintains psi drug manufacturing plants in client states outside Imperial borders. Because of the bad reputation for safety of its chemical/biological warfare division, the firm is not well liked in many regions, even though all of SuSAG's dangerous manufacturing plants and experimental stations are located on remote, uninhabited planetoids. Since sabotage of its plants is wide spread, and its products extremely valuable, the firm maintains a large paramilitary security force equipped at tech level 12-14 standards.

SuSAG was founded in 252 by Gustav Schunamann, financed from royalties received for his purification process for various psionic drugs, and using the shell of a bankrupt Sylean firm (hence the archaic AG in its name). In 800, psi drugs were declared illegal, all plants engaged in their manufacture within the Imperium closed, and all stocks confiscated and destroyed. Fortunately for SuSAG, the firm had by then expanded into other operations, and although badly damaged, managed to survive and prosper.

In the Spinward Marches, SuSAG has facilities on many industrial worlds. The company supplies a large proportion of the sectors chemical and biological weapons, and owns several isolated laboratories in the Glisten (Spinward Marches/Glisten 2036) belt.

Stock Ownership: Schunamann family- 52%, Imperial family- 2%, Hortalez et Cie- 9%, Other corporations- 24%, Private ownership- 7%, Other- 6%.

^^^^

Scout Base

Port facility for the support, maintenance, and repair of scout vessels. The Imperial Interstellar Scout Service maintains a variety of scout bases scattered throughout the Imperium, with installations tending to be on less well developed worlds with starports type D or C. Scout bases tend to be surface installations equipped with basic facilities for fuelling and for minor maintenance activities oriented toward ships of displacement 1000 or less.

Scout bases are positioned in systems more out of the way than are naval bases for a reason. The scout bases serve as a source of ships carrying dispatches from the well-travelled xboat lanes to more remote worlds.

Scout bases also have other responsibilities, and most have an administrative responsibility in addition to the maintenance and refuelling of scout ships. Within a subsector, one base will hold responsibility for cartography in the subsector, another will be responsible for technical developments, and still another for contact and liaison activities. The scout base is more extensive than an xboat station, but less comprehensive than a way station.

See also Way Station, Xboat Station.

^^^^

Second Frontier War
(615-620)

Fought between the Outworld Coalition and the Imperium during the period of the Barracks Emperors. Arbellatra (b. 587, d. 666) was named Grand-Admiral of the Marches and led the combined local and Imperial forces to defeat the Coalition, and thenproceeded to restablish the central Imperial authority. She was named Regent in 622 as a result, and Empress in 629.

^^^^

Second Imperium

The successor of the First Imperium, established by Admiral Hiroshi Estigarribia to rule the territories conquered by the Vilani Empire by Terra.

See also Rule of Man
See also Long Night

^^^^

Sector

Mapping unit in astrography encompassing sixteen subsectors. Average density of 500 to 650 worlds per sector.

Sectors are named, and several synonyms are in common use, including march (or marches), region, reach (or reaches), quadrant, and matrix. The Spinward Marches, for example is a sector.

As a rough means of comparing size, the sector counts of the large interstellar states and areas of settlement are as follows: the Imperium:27; the Aslan Hierate:18; the Hive Federation:17; the Vargr Extents:14; the Two Thousand Worlds:14; the Zhodani Consulate:13; the Solomani Confederation:11.

^^^^

Seneschal

An aide or executive officer. For high-ranking officials, the wide range of responsibilities of high office are manageable only through computer assistance. Even then, the information flow may be too great. The seneschal is a product of the computer age - an adjutant or assistant with responsibilities in information management. The seneschal has no authority of his own; he manages the massive input of information associated with his superior's position, keeping the official informed, but not overwhelmed.

On Old Earth (or in low-tech feudal societies), the seneschal was the person in charge of a noble's estate. In more modern times, the role has changed to that of aide or executive officer.

For high-ranking officers, the wide range of responsibilities of high office are manageable only through computer assistance. Even then, the information flow may be too great. The modern seneschal is a product of the computer age - an adjutant or assistant with responsibilities in information management. The seneschal has no authority of his own; he manages the massive input of information associated with his superior's position, keeping the official informed, but not overwhelmed.

The most famous seneschal in the Spinward Marches is Branj Dilgaadin , seneschal to Duke Norris of Regina.


^^^^

Sharurshid

A Vilani trade and speculation corporation, with very little manufacturing capability. Sharurshid trades in luxury goods from all parts of the Imperium and many areas beyond. Most rare Terran wines and spirits are carried on the starships of Sharurshid. Sharurshid is one of the least active megacorporations in the Spinward Marches, although it does own several unique areas and planets with a view to developing products as sought after luxuries. Few Marcher markets are rich enough to afford Sharurshid's prices.

Trades in all luxury goods from all parts of the Imperium and many areas beyond. It began as a merchant company; its success as a carrier of luxury goods allowed it to expand into other areas, although it still has very little manufacturing capability. Its major source of income has always been its fleets of starships travelling between the many worlds of the Imperium.

Sharurshid traces its lineage back to the First Imperium. During the Interstellar Wars, Sharurshid was the major bureau in the First Imperium's rimward sectors.

Interests: Trade and speculation, luxury goods. Most rare Terran wines and spirits travel on the starships of Sharurshid.

Home Port: Vland ( Vland / Vland 1717).


Stock Ownership: Imperial family- 2%, Hortalez et Cie- 29%, Investment trusts- 32%, Noble Families- 18%, Antares Holdings- 19%.

^^^^

Shudusham Concords

The Shudusham Concords were a direct response to a tragic attack against the Sylean Federation in -112. In that year, a terrorist group rigged a Dover-Gabe courier robot to self-destruct, and managed to smuggle it aboard a 90,000 ton Sylean battleship. The vessel, Empire's Banner, was on a goodwill mission in orbit around the world Fornol ( Core / Core 1715) when the robot 's hydrogen/oxygen fuel cell exploded. Fornol 's premier, two ambassadors, and the Sylean vice-minister were killed, along with a host of ship's officers and crewmen. The repercussions from this event were so far reaching that the Sylean Federation was nearly thrown into civil war.

The disaster prompted twelve worlds of the Sylean Federation to meet on the neutral world of Shudusham ( Core / Core 2214) to draft an agreement dealing with the weaponry carried by robots . After much deliberation, all twelve worlds finally signed the completed Shudusham Concords in -110. A hardcopy is on display in the Museum of Sylean History on Capital ( Core / Core 2118).

The Concords have no legal force in the Third Imperium, but many worlds have adopted similar or identical standards using the Concords as a template, and most robots produced commercially in the Imperium are designed with these restrictions in mind.

The Concords contain seven articles: 
Article 1
Gives a general explanation of the document, overall guidelines for robot construction, locations and occasions for robot use, and the rights of robot owners. The robot 's owner is responsible for all actions the robot may perform, whether direct or indirect. Reliability is thus identified as a key issue, as is motivation for a robot equipped with a weapon or used as a weapon. 

Article 2
Describes detailed programming guidelines for general functions.

Article 3
Covers detailed manufacturing standards to ensure reliability, and provide for the safety of owners and the general public.

Article 4
Gives guidelines for when and where weapons are allowed or prohibited

Article 5
Describes specific programming logic for weapon control and usage. Most strongly worded of all the articles.

Article 6
Describes detailed manufacturing standards to ensure weapon reliability, when weapon installation is allowed.

Article 7
Provides for a new agency whose sole responsibility is to enforce the articles of the Concords. 

Forty-three amendments were added over the active life of the Concords, dealing with technological changes, minor logic enhancements, and additional enforcement procedures. The 37th amendment is well-known; it states that no pseudo-biological robot may attempt to pass itself off as a living being.

The Shudusham Concords proved to be effective. An entire interstellar industry grew out of the need for sensory devices to aid in enforcement of the Concords on the original twelve member worlds and later signatories. The Concords lost their legal force when Cleon I declared himself Emperor of the Third Imperium in Year 0.

Most worlds still use parts of the pre-Imperial Shudusham Concords as a model for their own laws to keep abuses with robots in check. Most worlds declare an owner to be responsible for the actions of his robot , even if the owner did not directly order the action. For example, if an owner orders his robot to protect his home, and in doing so the robot accidentally kills someone approaching the home, the owner can be charged with accidental murder.


^^^^

Signal GK

Abbreviation for Gashimeku Kaalariin, Vilani for "vessel in distress". The code signal GK originated on Vland as a distress signal in maritime and aviation activity, and it was one of the standard communication codes of the Vilani Imperium. When the Second Imperium succeeded it, signal GK was retained as a distress code co-equal with the Terran SOS and Mayday signals.

The Imperial Navigation Act of 103 requires all vessels, whether military or civilian, to respond to the GK, SOS, or Mayday signals provided such a response does not endanger the fabric or crew of the responding vessel.

See also Mayday, SOS.

^^^^

Six Races

Traditional term for the intelligent races which dominate this region of the galaxy. It appears independently in Aslan, Vargr, and K'kree literature.

There is some disagreement as to the meaning of the term and the identity of the races involved. Most commentators agree that all of the six races must be major races; the candidates are Aslan, Droyne, Hive, K'kree, Solomani, Vargr, Vilani, and Zhodani. Various racially based hypothesis have emerged, but none have gained ascendancy.

^^^^

Soegz

Admiral Soegz was a loyal supporter of Arbellatra in the final years of the Civil War, and he was elevated to Archduke of Antares by her decree, which incidentally and simultaneously ordered the execution of the previous archduke for treason.

Soegz, a Vargr and a subordinate admiral under Arbellatra, commanded a task force during the fleet actions of the Second Frontier War and late in the Civil War.

^^^^

Solomani

Strictly, a member of that human race which developed on Terra from the original human stock (H. Sapiens). The term Solomani is often used to refer to members of the Solomani race (or, more palatably to some, to members of the human race of Solomani descent) or to members of the Solomani political movement. Its original meaning is obscure, but the word seems to have derived from either "men of Sol" or "sole men".

After the Solomani developed jump drives in -2431, Solomani humans scattered to the stars in several waves. Early colonisation efforts first settled the worlds closest to Terra; the later conquest of the First Imperium and the establishment of the Rule of Man sent more Solomani humans out primarily to occupy former Vilani controlled regions.

^^^^

Solomani Autonomous Region

Area within the Imperium granted self-government through a charter from Empress Margaret I in 704.

The charter granted control of the region of space within a radius of 50 parsecs of Terra (hence the name Solomani Sphere) to a Solomani governing body, which was given broad powers of authority.

For two hundred years, the Imperium effectively ignored the region and concentrated instead on its coreward frontiers.

By 940, Solomani oppression of non-human (and non-Solomani) worlds forced Empress Margaret II to revoke the region's charter. After years of diplomatic actions proved fruitless, it was decided to forcibly reintegrate the region into the Imperium. Naturally, the Solomani resisted, and the Solomani Rim War (990 to 1002) began.

^^^^

Solomani Confederation

In 871, the government of the Solomani Autonomous Region reorganised itself as the Solomani Confederation in an attempt to strengthen its claims to the heritage of the old Terran Confederation. Although tantamount to a declaration of independence, the reorganisation was officially ignored by the government of the Imperium until the increasingly belligerent and extremist policies of the Solomani caused many border worlds under Solomani rule to petition the Imperium for redress.

The branches of the Solomani Confederation's government took the names of the government of the Terran Confederation, but the present institutions have little resemblance to those of the past. The chief governing body is the Secretariat. This is presided over by the Secretary General, who is elected from its membership. The Secretary General is the chief administrative officer of the Solomani government, and while the office holds great power, it is fully accountable to the Secretariat.

Representatives to the Secretariat are appointed by the governments of the individual districts. The number of representatives each district may appoint is determined according to that district's contribution to the Solomani economy. A district typically consists of a single world, but low population worlds or depressed areas are combined into multi world districts. In the case of a district such as this, an election is held to determine the representative from that district. These, however, are not elections in the normal sense: the governments vote rather than the populace. Each government of such a district is allocated votes (again, according to its economic importance), which are used to elect a representative for that district.

All government office holders and officials must be members of the official party, the Solomani Movement. Although formerly of great power and influence, the party is now weak, decentralised and of little importance. Real power in the Confederation is held by the government and the factions.

Because of the greater degree of local autonomy that exists in the Solomani Confederation, inter world factionalism exists to a much greater degree than would be allowed in the Imperium. Coalitions of worlds exist outside the normal government channels, sometimes equalling them in importance within a given region. For example, the Near Bootes cluster, in the Solomani Rim, dominates large portions of the adjacent subsectors, both economically and politically. Bootean mercantile interests heavily favour peaceful trade with the Imperium, and their influence with the Confederation government is considered to be the primary reason for the unofficial detente between the Confederation and the Imperium. Another example of this factionalism is the ongoing trade war between Kukulcan (Kukulcan 0405) and the coalition of Thetis (Kukulcan 0108) and Laputa (Kukulcan 0310). The war is causing severe damage to the economy of Kukulcan, but the Thetis-Laputa coalition has thus far been able to muster enough power to prevent effective intervention by the Confederation government.

^^^^

Solomani Hypothesis

When the Solomani discovered jump drive in -2431, they also discovered that more than a dozen human races had already colonised the worlds surrounding Terra. At the same time, there was no satisfactory explanation for the more than 40 genetically identical human races.

The Solomani Hypothesis, first proposed by Magis Sergei haut-Devroe (64 to 141), theorised that all of the many widely scattered human races of the galaxy originated on Terra, and he thought that they were transported to their current homeworlds by an alien race (called the Ancients) for purposes which even today remain unclear. The approximate date of the scattering has been established as -300,000.

When Terra was incorporated into the Imperium in 588, a small historical mission verified much of haut-Devroe's work. The hypothesis was already generally accepted by the majority of the human population in the Imperium.

More than 40 known human races have been located (and several more of them failed to adapt to their new worlds and are now extinct); only three of these human races have reached widespread prominence: they are the Vilani, the Zhodani, and the Solomani. Most other human races accept the hypothesis but lend it no special importance. The hypothesis is used by the Solomani Movement as a basis for its claims of Solomani racial superiority.

^^^^

Solomani Movement

An organisation devoted to the doctrine that humans of Solomani descent are superior to all others and are most fit to rule the galaxy.

^^^^

Solomani Rim War
(990 to 1002)

War between the Third Imperium and the Solomani Confederation during which a large portion of the Solomani Rim sector was returned to Imperial control. Hoping to profit from Imperial preoccupation with the Third Frontier War and the disorganisation which followed upon the abdication of Styryx in 989, the Solomani reasserted their control over the complete Solomani Sphere, including those portions reabsorbed into the Imperium (see Solomani Autonomous Region). The Imperium declared war in 990.

The initial phase of the war went very well for the Solomani. Although the Imperium maintained sizeable fleets along the border, they were inferior in strength to the massed naval elements of the Solomani Confederation. In most areas, the Solomani regained the border worlds lost to the Imperium in the last half century and even occupied a number of worlds that had never been part of the Solomani Sphere.

However, Solomani fortunes were checked in 993 when a large invasion force attempted to regain the worlds in the Old Expanses sector; it encountered near- fanatical resistance and was repulsed with heavy losses.

The period from 993 to 998 was one of stalemate. The Solomani abandoned their plans for further expansion in order to rebuild their forces. However, their policy of inflexibly defending every border world was a constant drain on their resources, and the Solomani were not able to regain the initiative. By 998, the Imperial Navy had achieved strategic dominance as the greater industrial base of the Imperium made its power felt.

The last phase of the war, 998 to 1002, consisted of a near continual advance by Imperial forces into the heart of the Solomani Sphere. The basic Imperial strategy was to attack along two parallel axes of advance, with lesser task forces spreading out to create a huge pocket of Solomani territory.

Although the Solomani occasionally achieved a tactical success against a task force (such as in the Battle of Kagukhasaggan in early 1002), they were unable to halt the main advances. With the liberation of the Vegan district in 1001, the Imperium gained the secure base envisioned in the reign of Styryx. The loss of the Vegan district prompted the Solomani to embark on a desperate gamble. Recalling the time when the out numbered Terran Confederation was able to defeat the Vilani Imperium, the Solomani consolidated their remaining naval forces into a single fleet and struck at the Imperial fleet that was advancing out of the Vegan district. At the Battle of Dingir, in early 1002, the Solomani Grand Fleet was scattered and substantially destroyed. The remnants of the Solomani fleet fell back deeper into the Sphere and the Imperial forces firmly established themselves in Terra's own subsector.

The Imperial high command decided that Terra would have to be invaded in order to end forever all claims of Solomani superiority and thus the use of Terra as a rallying standard elsewhere in the Sphere. In order to invade Terra, a sizeable fraction of the Imperial forces in the Solomani Sphere were assembled into an assault force, which effectively ended the pursuit of the defeated Solomani fleet. The invasion began in the second quarter of 1002, and the hard fought campaign lasted until nearly the end of the year. In the end, the Imperium conquered the planet. However, the battle for Terra had consumed so much of the Imperial military's resources that the Imperial high command felt they lacked sufficient strength to resume their advance into the rest of the Solomani Sphere. Accordingly, they negotiated a temporary armistice with the Solomani military commanders, who were glad to gain a respite to regroup their remaining forces. The war ended on this basis as both the Imperial and Solomani civilian governments, who were concerned with the strain placed on their economies by the protracted war, informally agreed to extend the armistice indefinitely.

Although scholars have debated the wisdom of invading Terra, some claim that the battle was a marginal if not a pyrrhic victory for the Imperium. The general consensus has been that the war as a whole was a victory for the Imperium. A substantial amount of the Solomani Sphere was reabsorbed by the Imperium, and a vigorous Vegan Autonomous District was set up to oversee Imperial interests along the new border.

^^^^

Solomani Security

Secret police force maintained in service to the Solomani Confederation for the purpose of maintaining state secrets, conducting espionage, and implementing political policies of the government.

Solomani Security maintains both a network of contacts which provide information from outside the Confederation and a network of informants which provide information within the Confederation. Solomani Security agents themselves are highly trained individuals capable of conducting espionage and sabotage.

^^^^

Solomani Sphere

The territory governed by the Solomani as the Solomani Autonomous Region.

See Solomani Autonomous Region.

@@@@solomanisphere.jpg

^^^^

Snow Cat

The Fulacinian Snow Cat's biggest prey is the Fulacinian Groat, a dangerous felinoid herbivore, which bears some similarities to the Terran Mountain Goat.

The Travellers' Aid Society does not advise eating the meat of the Fulacinian Snow Cat, as it is most often highly-tainted by the toxic metallic native to the tainted atmosphere of Fulacin.
 
The earlier Octagon Society does advise that Fulacinian Snow Cat meat can be eaten after it has been subjected to a somewhat complex leaching procedure, which can be found in surviving copies of the The Octagon Book, which was published by Lent Publishers of Wochiers.

@@@@snowcat.jpg

^^^^

SOS

Terran distress signal, developed in the century before the first space travel. An abbreviation of "Save Our Souls", which developed primarily because of the widespread adoption of a simple communication code.

See also Mayday, Signal GK.

^^^^

Sophont

A generalised term for an intelligent life form.

^^^^

Sophontology

The study of intelligent life forms. Subsidiary branches of this science include: cultural sophontology, the comparative study of sophont societies; physical sophontology, the study of genetic and physiological makeup of intelligent life; and developmental sophontology, the study of the various means by which life forms evolve intelligence.

^^^^

Spinward Main

A grouping of systems in the Spinward Marches sector, each within jump-1 of another. This grouping forms a corridor that allows jump-1 capable ships to travel to fifteen of the sixteen Spinward Marches subsectors and to 223 of the sector's 437 worlds.

^^^^

Spinward Marches

The Imperium's farthest frontier sector, containing 437 star systems divided along a coreward to rimward line by the Imperial border. The region is dominated by two major powers: the Imperial Spinward Marches sector and the frontier provinces of the Zhodani Consulate. In the independent territory between the two powers lie three small states: the Federation of Arden, the Sword Worlds Confederation, and the Darrian Confederation. Each follows its own diplomatic line designed to maintain independence from both the Zhodani and the Imperium.

The Spinward Marches has been settled since the 400s and is still a frontier sector. High-tech worlds are scattered among empty, fallow worlds; there is potential for exploration, exploitation, and development for centuries to come.

^^^^

Starport

Established for the landing, servicing, refuelling, and control of starships. Starports range in quality from A (the best and most extensive) to E (the worst, little more than a spot of cleared ground).

Starports generally have two components: a surface facility and an orbital facility. The surface facility includes cargo handling installations, a landing field, control towers, and other necessary areas. Surface starport components are frequently called Dirt-Side, Ground, or Down (as in Credo Down Starport on Regina). Orbital facilities are present (usually in stationary orbit above the surface component) to enable handling of unstreamlined Ships and to allow construction of heavy craft in orbit. The orbital component is often called Shiny-Side, Up, or Orbital (as in Credo Orbital Starport). Type D and E starports have no extensive orbital facilities, but usually have navigational satellites or similar equipment. Unstreamlined ships at these starports must be serviced by shuttles. Starports, being the primary point at Which starships interact with a system, are usually the location for shipyards and additional bases, such as scout bases, naval bases, or other military and governmental installations.

^^^^

Strephon Aella Alkhalikoi
Emperor of the Imperium
(b. 1049)

Forty-third and current emperor of the Imperium; eldest son of Emperor Paulo III (981 to 1071). Born 1049.

Coronation 1071. Strephon has been criticised for starting to reverse the post Civil War policy of reducing the power of the archdukes. The most controversial such move was the appointment of Dulinor as Archduke Ilelish, who is considered to have an excessively strong power base. The Emperor has also shown considerable interest in the latest technological developments, particularly in the field of pseudo biological robots.

Strephon Aella Alkhalikoi was crowned the 43rd Emperor of the Third Imperium on Capital ( Core / Core 2118) on the fourteenth day of 1071. In the 33 years of his reign, Strephon has distinguished himself as a popular emperor in times of strain within and without the Imperium. Twelfth of the Alkhalikoi Dynasty, Strephon is a young emperor; at 54, he is only four years older than his father, Paulo III, was when crowned. Paulo continued to serve as emperor for 40 years, and died at the age of 90, when Strephon was only 21 years old.

Eleven years later, war broke out on the frontier between the Imperium and the Zhodani Consulate. Quick reactions on the part of Imperial forces saved the day, and peace was achieved a few years later, in 1084. Emperor Strephon has received much of the credit for the Navy's state of readiness, and its ability to respond to this threat as easily as it did.

Born in 1049, Strephon married his wife Iolanthe in 1067, two days before his eighteenth birthday. Their daughter, Grand Princess Ciencia Iphegenia, is 15 years old.

The Emperor also holds the position of Archduke of Sylea , the original domain.


^^^^

Sternmetal Horizons
LIC

Sternmetal is primarily engaged in mining operations and manufacturing. It produces mostly power generation equipment of all types including power plants for starships, air and ground vehicles, cities, and industrial installations. Additionally, Sternmetal is the largest manufacturer of food synthesis equipment in the Imperium. In the Spinward Marches, Sternmetal runs a low key operation, and is best known for supplying galley equipment to the sector's smaller ship builders. Various Sternmetal divisions trade under other names, and many individuals are unaware of how often they use Sternmetal's products. The aim of this policy appears simply to reach as many markets as possible with their fundamental trade goods.

Stock Ownership: Imperial family- 2%, Hortalez et Cie- 29%, Investment trusts- 32%, Noble families- 18%, Antares Holdings, LIC- 19%.

^^^^

Subsector

Mapping unit in astrography.

Artificial mapping unit in astrography, intended to delineate and define locations within the galaxy.

A subsector measures eight parsecs by ten parsecs, and has an average density of 30 to 40 worlds.

Subsectors are noted within a sector by their position using the first 16 letters of the alphabet (A-P). In addition, they are named and may be called by a variety of synonyms, including province, cluster, or district. Imperial convention is to assign numbers to districts which are under Imperial protection, pending their integration into the Imperium. One example is District 268 in the Spinward Marches sector.

In most cases, the subsector is used as a governmental unit within the Imperium. At the fringes of the Imperium, subsectors continue to be defined and carried on maps beyond the Imperial borders.


^^^^

Superheavy Elements

Although elements heavier than uranium are increasingly unstable and radioactive (with half-lives measured in fractions of a second), quantum theory predicts an "island of stability," consisting of the elements with atomic numbers 114 to 122, which have half-lives measured in the millions of years. These superheavy elements, also called eka-metals or island metals, are generated in small amounts in supernova explosions. Only a few grams have ever been discovered in nature, which is just enough for scientists to determine that superheavies would be immensely valuable to industry if a source could be found.

^^^^

Survey, First
(published 420)

The first comprehensive astrographic and demographic survey of the Imperium, which was performed by the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service. More than a hundred years in the making, its publication in 420 made available the Imperium's records on its component worlds for public use.

^^^^

Survey, Second
(published 1065)

The second comprehensive survey of the Imperium, which was performed by the Scout Service, and which updated the long obsolete and incomplete data of the First Survey. The Second Survey was seventy years in compilation, went to greater lengths than the First Survey, and included more world data as well as more complete astrographic data. In addition, the expansion of the Imperium since 420 had added many new worlds to be included.

^^^^

SuSAG
LIC

Commonly used name for the megacorporation heavily involved in chemical, pharmaceutical and genetic engineering. See Schunamann und Sohn AG, LIC.

^^^^

Sword Worlds Confederation

A loose confederation of worlds in the Spinward Marches, coreward of the Darrians and spinward of Imperial space. The first settlement in the region was on Gram in -399.

By circa -200 the settlement of the area was largely complete, and the first interstellar government in the region, the Sacnoth Dominate, was formed in -186. Consisting of the twenty worlds settled up to that point, the Dominate lasted until 102, when it was fractured by rebellion into several smaller states.

During the ensuing centuries various Sword World governments rose and fell; they sometimes coalesced all the worlds under a single world's domination and sometimes splintered into several small states. Contact with Imperial traders in 73 brought increased trade and had a stabilising influence on the region, but this stability was short-lived.

The First Frontier war brought a desire for cooperation among the various squabbling worlds, and the end of the war saw the formation of the first unified confederation in centuries, centred on Sacnoth, and referred to as the Second Dominate. As a result of the Outworld Coalition's victory, the Sword Worlds annexed Terant 340, Torment, Trifuge, and Cunnonic, which are all in the Darrian subsector.

The Second Dominate held power until 698, when it was overthrown by a coalition headed by Gram. The Gram Coalition ruled until 788, when a short war with the Darrian Confederation resulted in the loss of the four worlds gained during the First Frontier War.

Public outrage at the mishandling of the war caused the subsequent fall of the Gram government. The replacement was the Trilateral Alliance, a decentralised organisation headed by Narsil, Sacnoth, and Durendal. The Alliance broke up in 848 due in large part to the inherent weakness of its organisation, and an interregnum of essentially independent worlds lasted until Gram reasserted its influence (helped substantially by Zhodani money and advisers, rumour has it) in 852. This government has retained control-down to the present day.

The government allows almost complete local autonomy. Individual worlds maintain separate military forces, pass their own laws, and completely regulate their own internal affairs. The Confederation government regulates inter world trade, handles diplomatic relations with outside powers, and adjudicates inter world disputes.

In peacetime, the Confederation government maintains a pool of high ranking military officers (selected from the military forces of all member worlds) who are trained in large unit command and staff operations.

During time of war, all military forces are confederalized and placed under a single unified command. For ground forces, divisions will be commanded by generals from the individual worlds, corps, and higher organisations by Confederation officers. The component forces of a division will be from the same world whenever possible. For naval forces, individual ships are under the command of local officers, squadrons and fleets by Confederation officers.

^^^^

Sylean Federation
(-650 to 0)

Large interstellar federation which served as the basis for the Third Imperium.

Established on Sylea in -650, the Federation grew slowly, absorbing several surrounding worlds and increasing trade and interaction between worlds.

By -30, the real power in the Federation was an industrial consortium headed by Cleon Zhunastu. Cleon, a Solomani noble of great vision, used his family industrial base and the support of other families (obtained by the persuasiveness of his personality) to obtain behind the scenes control of the Federation government and to begin an active campaign to increase the number of worlds under its control.

After 30 years of economic and diplomatic manoeuvring (and occasional military action), Cleon had increased the size of the Federation and extended its control to the edge of what is now Core sector. Cleon envisioned a territory larger than a single sector, however, and concluded that the tightly controlled, highly centralised nature of the government of the Sylean Federation was not suitable for a large, star spanning empire.

Cleon decided the Federation had served its purpose, and he began plans for a more suitable form of interstellar government, which would allow greater local autonomy but maintain cohesion over large distances. In addition, to restore the past glories of the Rule of Man (and therefore lay claim to all former territories of the First and Second Imperiums), Cleon proposed to revive the Imperium.

This was made possible by the fact that in the closing years of the period known as Twilight, one of the last claimants to the throne of the Rule of Man had made Sylea his capital. Cleon traced the legitimacy of the Sylean Federation back through this emperor to the Rule of Man and (since the Rule of Man claimed to be the lawful successor to the Vilani Imperium) to the First Imperium as well.

In the 651st year of the Sylean Federation, the Grand Senate of the Federation "persuaded" Cleon to accept the Imperial crown. That year he was crowned First Emperor of the Third Imperium, and he proclaimed the 651st year of the Sylean Federation to be the Year Zero of the Third Imperium.

^^^^

System

A star and its family of planets and satellites. The term system denotes a major world and its associated star, plus any other planets, satellites, asteroids, and other bodies.

^^^^

System Defence Boat

A nonstarship specifically intended for defensive operations inside a star system. Developed on the principle that a nonstarship (because of the increased armament made possible by its lack of jump drives) can normally defeat a starship of equal tonnage. System Defence Boats are typically stationed at the vital points of a system (the gas giants, the asteroid belt, the major world, and so on), and they attack invading vessels according to one or more predetermined plans.

System defence boats range in size from displacements of 100 to 5000 and are constructed at all tech levels from eight to fifteen. There are hundreds of different types, tailored to their specific mission.

See also Gunboat.

^^^^

Terra
(Solomani Rim/Sol 1827 A867A69-F)

Also known as Earth. Origin of the genetic stock from which all races of humaniti descended, former capital of the Terran Confederation, former capital of the Old Earth Union, and former capital of the Solomani Autonomous Region. The word Terran (used to refer to an inhabitant of this world or to a citizen of the Terran Confederation) is derived from the name of this world.

^^^^

Terran Confederation
(-2398 to - 2204)

Interstellar government consisting of Terra ( Sol  / Solomani Rim 1827) and its colony worlds.

The United Nations and UNSCA
The Terran Confederation has its roots in the formation of the United Nations Space Coordination Agency (UNSCA) in -2508 (2010 AD), and the Treaty of New York, signed in -2499 (2019 AD). Essentially, the treaty placed the armed forces of the major nations of Terra ( Sol  / Solomani Rim 1827) under the centralized control of the United Nations (UN), until that time a loose organisation of the nation states of Terra ( Sol  / Solomani Rim 1827), with no governmental authority.

In addition, the treaty formalized the changes that had been made in the structure of the United Nations up to that time. The Secretary General was granted a wider range of executive powers than before. The Secretariat, previously an unofficial advisory group of representatives from the major nation-states, was made the chief legislative body. The General Assembly was retained, but it was an institution without real power and served merely as a forum for debate among the representatives of both major and minor nations. The Security Council was dispensed with altogether.

Jump Drive and First Contact
In addition to handling mundane responsibilities that helped avoid conflict, UNSCA soon became a clearing house for space operations. One of UNSCAs natural directions was research. In -2431 (2087 AD), UNSCA researchers in the systems asteroid belt who were looking for better drives to transport ores discovered jump drive. The first jump drives were used only in the solar system - they were too weak to be used for interstellar travel.

In -2422 (2096 AD), for various reasons, the first interstellar jump expedition travelled to Barnards Star ( Sol  / Solomani Rim 1926) rather than Alpha Centauri ( Sol  / Solomani Rim 2027?). Upon their return in -2421 (2097 AD), the expedition members were hurried into a hushed meeting with UNSCA. The expedition had encountered alien intelligent life - humans no less! The expedition members had encountered a Vilani prospecting outpost, an outpost on the very fringe of a vast, advanced empire controlled by alien humans. It came as quite a shock to the Terrans that many of the worlds only a few parsecs away were already claimed. Politicians echoed the popular sentiment that it was unfair for alien humans from several hundred light-years away to claim worlds near Terra ( Sol  / Solomani Rim 1827). Individual nations began expanding their armed forces and building starships.

Formation of the Terran Confederation
Over the course of the next three decades, UNSCA and the UN transformed itself into a true world government, which administered the defense of Terra against the Vilani Empire. Representatives from the Terran colonies formed on other worlds were granted membership into the General Assembly of the United Nations. In -2400, the UN officially changed its name to the United Worlds. Two years later, the name was changed again to the Terran Confederation (-2398 / 2120 AD). Modern historians, for simplicity, use this term exclusively.

The Terran Confederation fought a series of interstellar wars with the Vilani Imperium over the period -2408 to -2219. These wars ultimately resulted in the fall of the Vilani Grand Imperium. The Confederation was dissolved in -2204 upon the proclamation of the Rule of Man to replace the Vilani Imperium.


See also Rule of Man, Nth Interstellar War, Solomani, United Nations, and United Worlds.

^^^^

Terran Prime
Terran Norm

Designation used in astrographical surveys of unpopulated regions. These worlds are similar to Terra, and as such are much prized as possible habitations. To be classed as such, the following must be true: Diameter 8640 to 15200 km, atmosphere 4 to 9, hydrographic percentage 36 to 95%, gravity 0.6 to 1.1g. Within this is the category Terra Norm (diameter 9440 to 15200 km, atmosphere 6 or 7, hydrographic percentage 46 to 75, and gravity 0.75 to 1.1g), a classification which almost guarantees successful colonization.

Terran Prime (T-prime) worlds are worlds similar to the Terran standard type; such worlds are highly prized as habitations. To be classed as Terran Prime, a world's physical characteristics must fall within the following ranges:

Size 6 - 9 
Atmosphere 4 - 9 
Hydrography 3 - 9 
Gravity 0.6 - 1.1G 

Within this category is the Terran Norm (T-norm) type:

Size 7 - 9 
Atmosphere 6 - 7 
Hydrography 5 - 7 
Gravity 0.75 - 1.1G 

This latter classification almost guarantees successful colonisation or tourist industries.

Note that the actual UPP of Terra ( Sol / Solomani Rim 1827) is A-867A69-F.


^^^^

Third Frontier War
(979 to 986)

The long period of uneasy peace between the Imperium and the Zhodani Consulate erupted into war in 979 with simultaneous blows by the Zhodani in the Querion and Jewell subsectors. Imperial reaction was deficient, and the hostilities continued for nearly six years with little to show for it. The armistice finally signed in 986 gave each side little, and it brought about the abdication of Emperor Styryx in 989. Third Imperium (0 to present): Also called The Imperium.

Founded in 0 by Cleon Zhunastu from the Sylean Federation in what is now Core sector. The Imperium grew swiftly during the pacification campaigns and more slowly thereafter until stability was reached in the 600's, by
which time the Imperium had absorbed much of the territory of the First and Second Imperiums.

Government Structure: The Imperium can best be thought of as a form of feudal confederation. Member worlds of the Imperium agree to pay taxes and obey a few fundamental laws which the Imperium promulgates, known as the High Laws. In return, the Imperium agrees to patrol the space between the worlds, to protect interstellar trade, to encourage travel and commerce, and to arbitrate diplomatic relations between worlds. Beyond this, individual worlds are left to their own devices so long as they acknowledge the power of the Imperium to rule the space between the stars.

Imperial power is present on the member worlds in the form of consulates, bureaucratic offices, and bases. Sometimes, larger enclaves of Imperial power are placed where they can enhance the Emperor's strength.

The Imperium's territory is divided into sectors, which are in turn divided into subsectors and systems. Groups of sectors, called domains, have been created above the sector level.

During the Pacification Campaigns, Emperor Artemsus divided chartered space into six regions, labeled them domains, and appointed an archduke over each of them. To each archduke, he assigned the continuing pacification of the domain's many systems and their integration into the Imperium. The domains were: Sylea (Core, Fornast, lassila, Delphi), Vland (Corridor, Vland, Gushemege, Dagudashag), Gateway (Ley, Glimmerdrift Reaches, Gateway, Crucis Margin), Ilelish (Ilelish, Zarushagar, Reaver's Deep, Daibei), Antares (Lishun, Antares, Mendan, Amdukan), and Sol (Diaspora, Old Expanses, Solomani Rim, Alpha Crucis). Most of the domains were never totally absorbed into the Imperium.

In 589, during the First Frontier War, a seventh domain was established: Deneb (Spinward Marches, Deneb, Trojan Reach, Reft). The intent was to appoint an archduke to be responsible for their supervision. However, the Civil War broke out before an archduke was appointed.

Following the civil war, the emperors expressed concern about individuals with powers equaling their own, so they moved to lessen the power of the archdukes in the Imperial government. Because of this, no Archduke of Deneb was ever  appointed. As a result, the domains came to have little practical significance. Each archduke did retain the power to create knights and baronets.

In the years after the Fourth Frontier War, and the problems it presented from lags in communication, Emperor Strephon felt that a strengthened archduke position could enable the Imperium to more quickly respond in the defense of the realm. Against the protests and opposition of prominent members of the Moot, Strephon has reinstituted a number of powers to the domains, most notably the right to collect taxes.

^^^^

Third Imperium

Also called The Imperium. Founded in 0 by Cleon Zhunastu from the Sylean Federation in what is now Core Sector. The Imperium grew swiftly during the pacification campaigns and more slowly thereafter until stability was reached in the 600s, by which time the Imperium had absorbed much of the territory of the First and Second Imperiums. 

Government Structure: The Imperium can be best thought of as a form of feudal confederation. Member worlds of the Imperium agree to pay taxes and obey a few fundamental laws which the Imperium promulgates, known as the High Laws. In return, the Imperium agrees to patrol the space between the worlds, to protect interstellar trade, to encourage travel and commerce, and to arbitrate diplomatic relations between worlds. Beyond this, individual worlds are left to their own devices so long as they acknowledge the power of the Imperium to rule the space between the stars. 

Imperial power is present on member worlds in the form of consulates, bureaucratic offices, and bases. Sometimes, larger enclaves of Imperial power are placed where they can enhance the emperors strength. 

The Imperiums territory is divided into sectors, which are in turn divided into subsectors and systems. Groups of sectors, called domains, have been created above the sector level. 

During the Pacification Campaigns, Emperor Artemsus divided space into six regions, labeled them domains, and appointed an archduke over each of them. To each archduke, he assigned the continuing pacification of the domains many systems and their integration into the Imperium. The domains were: Sylea (Core, Fornast, Massilia, Delphi), Vland (Corridor, Vland, Gushemege, Dagudashag), Gateway (Ley, Glimmerdrift Reaches, Gateway, Crucis Margin), llelish (Ilelish, Zarushagar, Reavers Deep, Daibei), Antares (Lishun, Antares, Mendan, Amdukan), and Sol (Dispora, Old Expanses, Solomani Rim, Alpha Crucis). Most of the domains were never totally absorbed into the Imperium. 

In 589, during the First Frontier War, a seventh domain was established- Deneb (Spinward Marches, Deneb, Trojan Reach, Reft) The intent was to appoint an archduke to be responsible for their supervision. However, the Civil War broke out before an archduke was appointed. 

Following the civil war, the emperors expressed concern about individuals with powers equaling their own, so they moved to lessen the power of the archdukes in the Imperial government. Because of this, no archduke of Deneb was ever appointed. As a result, the domains came to have little practical significance. Each archduke did retain the power to create knights and baronets. 

In the years after the Fourth Frontier War, and after the problems it presented from lags in communication, Emperor Strephon felt a strengthened archduke position could enable the Imperium to more quickly respond in defending the realm. Against the protests and opposition of some prominent members of the Moot, Strephon reestablished the domain as a level in the bureaucracy of the Imperial Navy and returned to the Domain the ability to collect taxes. Still later, Strephon gave the archdukes the ability to legislate and enforce the desires of the emperor on the local level. 

@@@@imperium.jpg

^^^^

Thoengling Empire

Large, centralized state in the Vargr Extents. The Thoengling Empire is one of the most stable of the Vargr states and has existed in its current form since 792. The Emperor, who has great governmental authority, is chosen for life by vote of an elected assembly; by law, no member of the emperor's family may succeeded them. Sons and daughters of the higher nobility are brought up at the Imperial court, where every effort is made to inculcate personal loyalty to the Emperor.

The Thoengling Empire has become a major trading partner of the Imperium and generally supports Imperial interests in the Vargr Extents.

^^^^

TNS

See Traveller News Service

^^^^

Trade Routes

Routes which jump-capable starships travel between major worlds and which connect vital suppliers with essential markets, important government worlds with high population worlds, and strategic resources with exploiting industry. Trade routes are a natural outgrowth of economic and market pressures. When a market is no longer profitable, the trade routes bypass it.

The trade routes are typically the territory of the Imperium's largest trading companies. They maintain fleets of commercial transports and merchants who serve these trade worlds, and they reap large profits in doing so.

But trade routes directly serve fewer than a tenth of the worlds of the Imperium. The other 90 percent of the Imperium's worlds are served by feeder lines, tramp freighters, and free traders. These smaller companies and unscheduled ships carry passengers and cargo between worlds off the main trade routes.

^^^^

Trade Station

Establishment for the promotion of interstellar commerce. There is no single controlling agency for trade stations; some are established by private companies, on their own, or on contract to the Imperium, some are run by the scout service, and others are operated by different branches of the Imperial government.

^^^^

Tranian

Archduke of Gateway. As archduke of the domain with the smallest proportion of territory actually within the Imperium, Tranian's dynasty was always the least powerful of the archduke dynasties. However, following the Civil War, this domain's powers were the least diminished by succeeding emperors. This was largely due to the fact that no emperor of the flag came from this region, and the armed forces of the region remained on the side of the Imperium instead of any particular emperor.

Tranian has few duties in the domain which cannot be administered from Capital, where he resides for most of the year. He is a powerful voice for tradition and honor in the Moot, and so the Imperium as a whole.

^^^^

Trake

Small berry common to many worlds of the Imperium. the trake has a meaty, sweet body enclosing a single large seed and grows on a low, thorny bush. Trakes have grown in the Imperial Core since the time of the First Imperium. Introduced late to the Spinward Marches, they have flourished on only a few worlds, most notably Pysadi and Alell, although they are cultivated on many others.

See also Atrake

^^^^

Traveller News Service

The major news agency of the Imperium, owned by the Travellers' Aid Society. TNS has bureaus on most major worlds throughout the Imperium and representatives at most starports.

^^^^

Travel Zone

Standard form of classification for worlds in terms of relative danger. As a service to spacefarers, the Traveller's Aid Society publishes travel zone classifications that indicate the degree of danger a world presents to visitors. Standard classifications are green (no danger), amber (caution advised), and red (severe danger).

See also Amber Zone, Red Zone.

^^^^

Trojan Points

In a gravitational system composed of a small body orbiting a much larger one (such as a planet and star or a moon and planet), there are two stable points lying in the small body's orbit 60 degrees ahead and behind it, and thus equidistant from the small and large bodies. These are called Trojan Points (also LaGrangian points, which are abbreviated as L4 and L5).

The Trojan points of of a gas giant near an asteroid belt commonly collect a cluster of asteroids. The name comes from the first such cluster discovered by Terrans at Jupiter in the Sol system; the asteroids are named after mythical heroes of the Trojan war.

^^^^

Trokh

Language of the Aslan race, constant throughout all Aslan worlds, except for a few isolated colonies. This has done much to offset the effects of clan rivalry on interstellar commerce within the Hierate, and diplomatic relations With other interstellar states.

^^^^

Tukera Lines
LIC

Tukera Lines operates a vast fleet of passenger and freight vessels throughout the Imperium, following the Xboat lines. In some subsectors (particularly the older, more established regions of the Imperium) Tukera Lines has a virtual monopoly on long distance shipping and travel.

Tukera Lines actually predates the formation of the Imperium. The original corporation held a charter from the Sylean Federation (family tradition holds that the company is several centuries older). With the establishment of the Imperium in the Holiday Year Zero, all such charters were automatically recognised by the Imperium.

Tukera Lines concentrates on the main communication links within the Imperium, and operates a vast fleet of jump-3 and jump-4 liners and transports which follow the established xboat routes. In some subsectors (especially the older, more established regions of the Imperium) Tukera has a virtual monopoly on long distance shipping and travel. Throughout the Imperium, all long-haul transport lines regard Tukera as their primary competitor.

Current Owner: Count Blaine Trulla Tukera and his two brothers.

In the Spinward Marches Tukera runs passenger and freight services between all the worlds on the xpress boat routes. In support of these operations, the company also owns marketing facilities, shipyards, ports and even staff training colleges. Their most extensive holdings are the transport company based in Aramis subsector, which is wholly owned by Tukera. The corporation uses its Imperium wide connections to provide highly profitable markets for the unusual products of the subsectors.

Stock Ownership: Tukera family, 6%; Imperial Family, 32%; large corporations, 6%; investment trusts, 25%; public (individuals) 25%.

^^^^

Twilight
(-1776 to -1526)

The failure of the Rule of Man triggered the collapse of most interstellar civilization. while interstellar travel and commerce continued, it was at a greatly reduced rate, and the many worlds of the Imperium turned in on themselves. The period of collapse is termed Twilight, and it lasted for two and a half centuries.

Modern historians consider Twilight to have begun in -1776 when the treasury on Hub/Ershur refused to acknowledge a monetary issue of the branch treasury at Antares, which triggered a financial collapse and the destruction of large- scale trade within the Imperium.

The end of Twilight is commonly accepted as the year -1526, when the last government claiming to be the Rule of an ceased to exist.

See also Long Night.

^^^^

Twilight's Peak

Legendary or apocryphal story of lost starfarers on an unknown world who discover fantastic structures and devices while surviving a terrible winter. Phrased as an epic poem of execrable quality, the story is most notable only in that it is based on fact: the Gyro Cadiz task force was lost in 984 (within the time period specified) and it has not been recovered or accounted for.

^^^^

Two Thousand Worlds

Most common name in the Imperium for the region of space ruled by the K'kree. "Two Thousand Worlds" is a literal translation of the K'kree T't'tkahk Xeng ICirr. The same words can also be rendered idiomatically as "universe". In past times, the words meant "night sky",as roughly two thousand stars can be seen from one hemisphere of Kirur, the K'kree homeworld. The name should not be taken to mean that there are exactly two thousand systems in the K'kree empire.

The K'kree government is highly conservative. The current dynasty ruling the Two Thousand Worlds has been in power since prehistoric times, and the form of the government has remained unchanged except for a few minor modifications made necessary by the problems inherent in governing an interstellar empire.

K'kree expansion into space progressed very slowly after the discovery of the jump drive in -4142. The conservative nature of society and the technical limitations placed upon spaceflight by that society (K'kree spaceships must be very large, for example) combined to inhibit early exploration and colonization.

The discovery of other sophonts caused a xenophobic reaction in k'kree society. The realization that intelligent carnivores might exist somewhere in space sparked the K'kree obsession to convert the universe to herbivorism. This obsession stimulated the growth of the Two Thousand Worlds to its present size and still dominates K'kree culture. Local cultures are tolerated and other aspects of K'kree society are not heavily enforced, but all races within the Two Thousand Worlds are herbivorous.

K'kree contact with the Hive Federation was soon followed by the Hiver-K'kree war of -2029 to -2013. The military technology of the K'kree proved superior in the first stages of the war. The war ended due to nonmilitary considerations, however, when the Hive Federation demonstrated a plan to radically alter the 'kree social order through the the use of psychohistorical techniques and threatened to implement it. The K'kree withdrew to the antebellum borders, and the border between the to states has remained stable to this day.

The K'kree Empire eventually stopped in its expansion. Increasing problems of administration over interstellar distances and contact with other starfaring races (such as hivers and humaniti) have stabilized the Two Thousand Worlds at its present size.

^^^^

United Nations
(-2573 to -2400)

An association of Terran states. Established in -2573 on the signing of the UN charter by the fifty member states at San Francisco. The organization was intended to reduce conflict and hardship on the world by encouraging cooperation between world powers. Duties were mainly carried out through UN agencies, but occasionally military force was employed with the support of the member states on the Security Council.

From about -2520, the UN started reforming into a world government. The armed forces of the major states became more accepted as a world-wide peacekeeping and police force under the banner of the United Nations. The Secretariat began coordinating large scale projects to reduce the effects of famine, disease, and economic hardship. Environmental controls and the move of many industrial concerns to orbital and out- system locations prevented Terra from loosing its garden climate. In addition, research was encouraged, and the solar system was intensively explored.

In -2499, the Treaty of New York formalized the changes in the UN's structure which had already occurred. The armed forces of the major nations were placed under centralized control. The Secretary General was granted wider executive powers. The Secretariat, previously an unofficial advisory group of representatives from the major nation-states, was made the chief legislative body. The General Assembly was retained, but became a forum for debate with little real power. The Security Council was dispensed with entirely. In addition, several new and powerful agencies were established. Among these were the United Nations Space Coordination Agency (UNSCA), the United Nations Diplomatic Integration Agency (UNIA), and the United Nations Trade Services Association (UNTSA).

Following the discovery of jump drive, and the establishment of extra-system colonies, these three agencies became the major arms of the interstellar government. On the admission of colonial representatives to the General Assembly in -2400, the organization changed its name to the United Worlds.

See also Terran Confederation and United Worlds

^^^^

United Worlds
(-2400 to -2398)

Name adopted by the Terran based interstellar government in the interim period between the first colonial representatives taking their places on the General Assembly, and the first colonial state to gain a place on the Secretariat. Despite this seemingly rapid integration of the colonies, they remained in the minority. Thus throughout the government's history, Terran representatives (and so Terran interests) dominated the General Assembly and the Secretariat. The admission of colonials to the Secretariat in -2398 prompted the second change in the state's name, to the Terran Confederation.

See also Terran Confederation, United Nations.

^^^^

Vargr

Intelligent major race derived from Ancient genetic manipulations of Terran carnivore/chaser stock, which apparently dates from approximately the same time that humaniti was scattered to the stars.

Inhabiting a region rimward of the Imperium, the Vargr were a puzzle to xenologists. The biochemistry and genetic makeup are almost identical with a number of terrestrial animals, but they differ radically from most of the flora and fauna indigenous to Lair, which is the purported Vargr home world.

Research during the early years of the Third Imperium concluded them to be the result of genetic manipulation of transplanted Terran animals of the family Canidae, almost certainly of genus Canis. The obvious conclusion, supported by archaeological evidence, is that the race known as the Ancients was responsible.

The typical Vargr is about 1.6 meters in height and weighs approximately 60 kilograms. They are upright, bipedal carnivores, with rear limbs digitigrade and hands very similar in size and appearance to those of a human, although there are significant internal differences. They have approximately the same physical parameters as humans and are able to use the same equipment without modification or additional instruction.

On average their reactions are slightly faster than those of the typical human, but individuals vary widely. The Vargr senses of smell and sight are superior to those of humans.

Government: There is no central Vargr government; indeed, there is no governmental type that can be said to be "typically vargr". Every conceivable form of governmental organization can be found somewhere in the Vargr Extents. The only cohesive force in the Extents is a fierce racial pride which causes a slight tendency towards racial cooperation.

The higher the level of the Vargr government, the more unstable it becomes because of the difficulty of obtaining consent of all Vargr involved.

Vargr in the Imperium: While only a few planets populated completely by Vargr exist within the Imperium, there are millions of Vargr citizens of loyal subject planets. Additionally, Vargr adventurers, criminals, mercenaries and traders can be found throughout the coreward reaches of the Imperium.

Society
The key elements shaping Vargr societies are a very strong centrifugal force resulting from an emphasis on personal leadership and a deeply ingrained family-group-race loyalty and an equally strong centripetal force resulting from acceptance only of informal lines of authority, an a constant competition for power between the more charismatic members of a group.

Centralized authority is extremely limited at the upper levels of Vargr society, and action is based on broad coalition concerns, with a constant splitting and rejoining by dissident factions. Traditionally, this has made it very difficult for more centralized and organized societies such as the Imperium to deal on a meaningful basis with what passes for Vargr states.

The Vargr have little respect for formal authority, and what respect they might have decreases as that authority becomes more remote. Vargr tend to respect informal authority figures more, and they obey superiors who are better known to them.

The Vargr have an intensive racial pride, and they are easily insulted. They are prone to enter fights without regard to possible consequences. Vargr social organization is difficult to characterize in Terran terms, but it can be most closely compared to the Dakota Sioux of North America in c. -2700, if the analogy is not pressed too far.

Even within the most stable Vargr governments, a highly charismatic leader can attract followers for almost any cause. The neighbors of the Vargr are constantly subject to impromptu raids and scattered piracy by bands of Vargr (totally without government sanction) who have been talked into a raid, a battle, or a war by a charismatic leader.

Image of a typical Vargr:
@@@@vargr.jpg

^^^^

Vargr Campaigns
(220 to 348)

The series of wars, encounters, conflicts, and disputes between the Imperium and the various Vargr states in Vland, Corridor, and Deneb sectors along the coreward edge of the Imperium.

As the Imperium expanded, it initially recruited worlds that were former members of the First and Second Imperium. As its borders reached still farther, the Imperial expansion met already established Vargr states of varying sizes. The Imperium struggled for over a century to secure its territory against the Vargr; the inevitable series of conflicts that resulted are collectively called the Vargr campaigns.

^^^^

Vargr Extents

The territory dominated by Vargr governments. The term Vargr Extents refers to those sectors with major Vargr populations. The Extents are situated roughly coreward of the Imperium and especially coreward of the Spinward Marches, Deneb, Corridor, and Vland sectors.

@@@@vargrextents.jpg

^^^^

Varian

Prince of the Imperium, son of Princess Lydia and Duke Dresden, tile elder of the Emperor Strephon's twin nephews. Third in line to the throne, being born only minutes before his brother Lucan.

^^^^

Vegan

Intelligent minor race originating on Muan Gwi ( Vega / Solomani Rim 1717). They were named by Solomani humans after the bright star near their homeworld.

Physiology

Vegans are upright, bipedal, and bilaterally symmetrical, averaging 2.2m in height. They are bisexual, homeothermic oxygen breathers with an average lifespan of over 200 years. Because of their low-gravity origin, they are physically quite weak, and are unable to live on high-gravity worlds.

The head serves both as braincase and sensory appendage. Auditory organs are located in a collar-like structure around the neck. Despite external appearances to the contrary, Vegans have two eyes, located inside the hood-like fleshy structure which dominates the head. The paired eyes are covered by a single transparent eyelid-like structure, which acts as a polarized light filter. This structure protects the eyes from glare, like built-in sunglasses, and also serves to keep windblown dust out of the eyes. This filter can be retracted when not needed. The eyes themselves are large, and pick up radiation well into the infrared portion of the spectrum, an adaptation to Muan Gwi's small red sun. Since the skull is solidly fixed in place, a Vegan cannot turn its head, but the fleshy hood containing the eyes can turn through a large arc.

The mouth is a vertical slit in the upper thoracic region, with paired breathing/vocal slits on either side of it. Two mandibles are located inside the upper chest, and grind food between their opposing sets of teeth.

Where the forearm and hand would be on a human, Vegans have three tentacles, which serve them as manipulative organs. Their legs end in broad, splayed feet, which prevent them from sinking into soft sand.

The urogenital opening is a vertical slit located ventrally in the lower abdomen. There are no external differences between the sexes.

Vegans have a number of adaptations to the arid dry region of Muan Gwi where they developed. Their tall, thin bodies are designed for maximum radiation of heat. The torso is covered with a thick integument, whose convoluted surface is richly supplied with blood vessels. By increasing or decreasing the supply of blood to the integument, heat radiation from the torso can be regulated to optimum effect (more during the day, less at night). This arrangement obviates the necessity for sweating and its consequent water loss. All orifices of the body can be sealed to prevent unnecessary moisture loss.

History

The Vegans received the jump drive about -6000 from Vilani-influenced traders, and colonised several nearby worlds before being absorbed into the First Imperium in -4404. They were severely restricted under Vilani rule, as were all races who resisted being intergrated into the rigid Vilani culture. Thus, they welcomed Terran victory in the Interstellar Wars and the advent of the Rule of Man. The Vegan Polity prospered under the Rule of Man and survived the Long Night largely intact. However, with the advent of the Third Imperium, the Vegan area was broken into individual planetary states in accordance with Imperial policy; non-humans were treated as full citizens, but in order to cement Imperial authority, no multiworld governmental units were allowed.

The creation of the Solomani Autonomous Region in 704 once again restricted the Vegans. Human colonies were founded on many Vegan worlds to maintain Solomani influence there, and Solomani governors were installed on all Vegan worlds. After the Solomani Rim War, the Vegan Autonomous District was formed as a counterweight to the Solomani Confederation.

Society

Vegan society is divided into hundreds of different tuhuir, which might be roughly translated as culture, philosophy, or tao. Each tuhuir has its own customs and traditions, and its own interpretation of the proper way to live. The civil service which governs the Vegan District is a tuhuir which oversees and mediates amoung all the other tuhuir. Although rare, heretical and rebellious tuhuir do exist.

Archeology shows that tuhuir were once separate societies, each associated with a particular people and geographic location, like countries on ancient Earth. Now, however, they are mixed together in complex patterns.

Tuhuir are not hereditary; when a Vegan nears sexual maturity, he or she enters a period of search, which may last for many years. Eventually the individual chooses a tuhuir; once made, the choice is for life. In practice, about 50% of Vegans choose the tuhuir of their parents (the exact percentage varies with each tuhuir); abour 0.5% find that they enjoy the search as a way of life and never join a tuhuir.


^^^^

Vegan Automonous District

A region of space controlled by a single centralised government run by the Vegans, a roughly humanoid race originating on Muan Gwi ( Vega / Solomani Rim 1717).

After its pyrrhic victory in the Solomani Rim War, the Imperium found that it could not continue its advance into the Solomani Sphere, and declared an indefinite armistice. The Imperial high command created the Vegan Autonomous District to act as a counterweight to the remnants of the Solomani Confederation. The Vegans have complete internal control over their District, but free passage is guaranteed for Imperial citizens and goods.

Although many factors have contributed to the present peace and stability along the Solomani Rim, it cannot be denied that the creation of the District has achieved its original purpose.

The worlds of the District are under a single, centralised government. State power is contained in a civil service, chosen and promoted by competitive examinations. Within this common state, the Vegans are culturally diverse. Society is divided into hundreds of different tuhuir, which might be roughly translated as culture, philosophy, or tao. Each tuhuir has its own customs and traditions, and its own interpretation of the proper way to live. Tuhuir are not hereditary; a Vegan chooses to join one after a period of search. The civil service which governs the District is a tuhuir which oversees and mediates among all the other tuhuir.

^^^^

Vilani

Human major race (H. sapiens) that developed on Vland from human stock placed there by the Ancients.

History
The world of Vland, while possessed of a hospitable environment, boasted an alien ecology based on its own independently evolved biology, a biology that produced amino acids, proteins, and sugars that were difficult for humans to digest and metabolize. The humans just could not use local plant and animal life for food.

One of the oldest occupations in Vilani society is that of shugilii (which translates roughly as miller). The shugilii was a person who could transform raw food into edible food through special aging and chemical treatments. The shugilii position was more akin to that of shaman or witch doctor than that of cook. Since virtually no food on Vland was edible without some treatment, shugilii were powerful members of society.

The alienness of land was reciprocal: humans were unsuitable as food for predators, parasites died because humans provided no nutrition, bacteria could not infect the human system, and even viruses were unable to invade and take over  human cells. Consequently, the primitive human society found no need for medically oriented shaman. Vilani medical understanding was very slow to develop because of this.

Vilani legends are full of accounts of the wars of the gods, terrible destruction, and occasional intervention in human affairs by the gods. Legends exist of early explorers who found lands with great living stone-metal gods possessed of immense magical powers. Modern archaeologists now believe these "gods" were actually great robot warriors and juggernauts used by the ancients in the final war. Apparently, the last of these machines finally ran down around -20,000.

Society
Early Vilani society was dominated by three groups: the shugilii, the aristocrats, and the merchants. Aristocrats were the natural leaders of society, the shugilii were the all important food processors, and the merchants controlled trade.

With the flowering of Vilani society (circa -11,000) and its attendant industrial revolution, each of these three forces gained power rather than lost it; each participated in the creation of the industrialized wealth of Vland.

In -9235 the Vilani made their ultimate breakthrough, one that would assure their ascendence for the next 6000 years. A research team working on the fringes of the Vland system created the first working prototype jump drive and demonstrated its effects.

The Vilani discovered intelligent lifeforms on other worlds within 60 parsecs of Vland. None of the races had progressed enough to have begun interstellar travel. The Vilani found it easy to dominate these less technically advanced races. The Vilani were able to impose Vilani culture and law on these other races among the stars. However, the Vilani conquering was not of a militaristic nature, but was economic subjugation.

As their sphere of influence was expanding, the Vilani found it difficult to maintain control across such great distances with jump-l their maximum rate of travel and communication. At the same time, each of the three power classes of the Vilani society found themselves threatened by the forces around it.

Three bureaus were established, each independent of the other two, and each assigned a territory among the stars for which it was responsible. Each of the three bureaus was effectively identical, but they initially espoused different philosophies, which were based on their origins. The bureaus maintained their own governments within their territories.

Silarurshid, originating with the merchant class, emphasized interstellar trade. lakhidkarhn, originating with the aristocracy, emphasized interstellar government. Naasirka, originating with the shugilii, floundered after it found that it could not control food supplies on most worlds it dealt with, but it ultimately became a broad based organization, emphasizing energy, transport, and luxury goods.

In -5430, the Vilani finally discovered jump-2. No other race had jump-2, and the Vilani maintained its monopoly on jump-2 by jealously guarding its secrets from all subject races.

Beginning in -5400, a series of wars to subjugate the resisting fringe cultures was waged. This period of consolidation lasted until -4045.

Grand Empire of Stars: In -4045, the ruling Vilani council, the Igsiirdi, declared the Grand Empire of Stars, or in the Vilani tongue the Ziru Sirka. The Vilani calendar starts on this date.

At first, the Empire had no emperor. Within 10 years, the chairman of the Igsiirdi (elected for life by the council) was declared the Isilimkarun, the Shadow Emperor, Who ruled by published proclamation, but never appeared in public. In -3610, the Shadow Emperor became Emperor of the Stars, who was absolute monarch of the Empire. Successors were elected from the Igsiirdi upon the death of the old emperor.

For nearly 1,200 years the Grand Empire of Stars Kept peace among its star spanning population. however, the empire insisted on cultural rigidity. Exploration was brought to a halt by -4000. Scientific research was controlled and then stopped altogether by -300.

The beginning of the end of Vilani domination, however, was emphasized when the Terrans contacted the empire in -2422. By - 240 the Terrans and the Vilani were at war; by -2219 the Terrans had surpassed the Vilani technology and were marching through the cities of Vland as conquerors, and the Grand Empire of Stars was at an end.

Currently, Vilani is a cultural rather than racial or national labeling, and it is applied to those within the Imperium who retain some of the old ways. Dialects of the old High Vilani language survive in certain places, along with a few other fragments of Vilani culture, such as musical forms and other fine arts. Certain of the old Vilani noble families have maintained more of the old culture. In particular, those who control the Vilani megacorporations instill a predominantly Vilani culture on many of their employees.

^^^^

Vilani Calendar

The Vilani calendar is based on the period of Vland (the Vilani homeworld) around Urakkalan, its star. The Vilani Gurkala (year) is 478.72 standard days in length.

See also Vland, First Imperium.

^^^^

Vilani

The group of languages derived from the official language of the Ziru Sirka. In modern times there are three versions common throughout the Imperium. Old High Vilani has a similar status to that of Latin on pre-stellar Terra; many Vilani-based languages of Imperial worlds are closely related to this language. Secondly, there is Classical Written Vilani. Used in the Ziru Sirka to help surmount the difficulties of language differences which emerged across the vast distances of that empire, its spelling, grammar, etc remained constant throughout the empire, even when pronunciation varied. Finally, there is Modern Vilani, still used as a first language on many Imperial worlds. It is this form that members of Imperial service are required to have a working knowledge of. The language has three sub-languages; one for speaking to ones' social superiors (Inferior), one for speaking to ones' social inferiors (Superior), and a third for use only with family members, pets, and close, life-long friends.

^^^^

Vland
(Vland/Vland 1717 A967A9A-F)

Homeworld of the Vilani, former capital of the Vilani Imperium, current capital of the Vland sector. Vland is a major trade and cultural center for the coreward/spinward regions of the Imperium.

^^^^

War

Major violent conflict between nations, corporations, or races.

See also Good War/Bad War, Imperial Rules of War.

^^^^

Way Station

Link in the express boat network. The way station is a large (for the Scout Service) base devoted to the overhaul and refit of express boats at points in their journeys. During a normal tour of duty, an express boat will jump from system to system, and occasionally change pilots, but steadily work its way farther and farther down the line.

At each stop (Xboat station), the Xboat is routinely checked, refuelled, reprovisioned, and sometimes recrewed. Ultimately, however, the Xboat must undergo maintenance and possible repair after the rigors of its mission. The way station performs this function.

Way stations have stocks of scout-oriented repair and maintenance equipment, as well as trained staffs of service personnel. They are the equivalent of naval bases, although they are capable of servicing only smaller displacement ships (10000 and less) due to the size and orientation of their facilities.

^^^^

Xboat

See Express Boat

^^^^

Xboat Station

Facility for handling Xboats at a star system. At each system served by the Xboat network, an express boat station is maintained to handle the message traffic and to manage incoming and outgoing Xboats.

Usually located near the edge of a star system, the station picks up messages beamed to it by incoming Xboats and relays the data to the local world for delivery. Messages destined for worlds farther down the line are transmitted to a waiting Xboat which jumps for the next world in the network.

The Xboat station contains receiving and retransmitting equipment; refuelling and support facilities for the local staff and waiting crews are also provided. The Xboat station maintains a local office on the system's major world for the acceptance of Xboat messages, as well as to handle delivery of the messages to addresses on the world.

^^^^

Xboat Tender

These 1000-ton displacement vessels are intermediaries between Xboats boats and their stations. They retrieve the Xboats, prepare them for their next jump and provide routine maintenance requirements. An internal Ship bay can hold up to four Express Boats, or two Scout/Couriers, and so are often used by the IISS as field repair workshops. In the more remote parts of the boat network, small groups of one to three such vessels act as the entire boat station with no permanent facility whatsoever. The Imperial Navy have pressed approximately 144 of these vessels into tanker duty, supporting fighter squadrons patrolling frontier worlds. They are also popular as bulk ore carriers and as corsairs, where the ship bay comes in useful for boarding procedures, allowing captured vessels to be stripped at leisure.

^^^^

Xmail

Information sent by Xboat. Also known as express mail and Imperial mail. Xboats carry information only (at least for their civilian customers); material objects may not be sent. Messages are digitally encoded; xmail costs Cr10 per 2 kilobytes per parsec. The message may be sent using a standard Galanglic character set (about CrlO for a 500 word message), or in classical written Vilani (about Cr10 for a 700 word message) or a picture may be reproduced as a facsimile (Cr2 for a 200 x 200 bit matrix). The message is printed out at its destination and delivered by a world's local mail service.

Some merchant companies operate an express Packet service, transporting small cargoes at speeds close to those of the Imperial boat network. These services are considerably more expensive than standard methods of cargo transport.

^^^^

Year Zero

The base year of the Imperial calendar is the founding year of the Third Imperium. By selecting a base year numbered zero (instead of the generally selected year 1), the Imperial dating system became a standard number line extending backward in time.

Years before the founding of the Imperium become simple negative numbers, and the differences between dates before and after the founding of the Imperium can be determined by subtraction

^^^^

Zdetl

Official language of the Zhodani Consulate, adopted as standard in -5718 (the 300th Olympiad). It is fairly constant throughout the consulate, the few dialects which exist arising primarily from the jargon of specific occupations, rather than a difference in language.

^^^^

Zhodane
(Zhodane 2719 A6547C8-F)

Capital of the Zhodani Consulate and homeworld of the Zhodani people. Unlike capitals of other interstellar states, Zhodane is largely divided into the estates of the members of the ruling Zhodani council, making the world's population unusually low. The three supreme Zhodani consuls, and the Grand Council, rule the Consulate from this world.

See also Zhodani.

^^^^

Zhodani

Human major race (H. sapiens) inhabiting the Zhodani Consulate, a region far spinward of the Imperium.

The Zhodani are a branch of Humaniti similar in most respects to other human races. In general, they tend to be taller than Solomani or Vilani, and lithe of build. Their most important difference is the acceptance and use of psionics. Zhodani society is divided into three classes: nobles, intendants, and proles. Nobles are the enfranchised ruling class, and receive psionic training from childhood. Intendants are the managers and administrators of society, and also receive early training. Proles constitute the masses, are forbidden the use of psionics, and do not receive training. Within this rigid class system, there are two opportunities for promotion to a higher class. All prole children are tested for psionic potential, and those showing high scores are taken from their families and adopted into the intendant class. Intendants are rewarded for great diligence, service to the state or victory in the psionic games, through the granting of noble rank.

The presence of psionics in the hands of those in power means that many aspects of society work at high efficiency. Psychology, behavioral science, communication science, and education are more refined and exact than in other societies. Educational methods are finely tuned, and capable of teaching concepts rapidly and accurately. Mental deviance or criminal tendencies can be detected early and corrected with facility.

Society
Zhodani society is generally a happy one. Individuals are members of a functioning whole, with each making a contribution to its success. The relative lack of upward mobility for the proles is offset by the possibility for their children to move upwards if they have the proper potential. The burden of responsibility imposed on on the intendants is lightened by the ever present possibility of reward through elevation to the noble classes. The nobles themselves temper their burden of authority with the comfort derived from their station in life.

Morality
The Zhodani have a general distaste for other human races which do not practice psionics. Effective indoctrination and the ever present possibility that one's mind is being read have removed dishonesty and deviance as common features of society. The tavrchedl (Thought Police) are a special branch of the government who are charged with maintaining correct thought in the population.

Imperial distaste for the Zhodani is founded on two facts. Firstly, the Zhodani practice psionics, and an Imperial cannot be sure that a Zhodani is not invading his mental privacy at any time. Imperials feel exposed and uncomfortable in the presence of Zhodani. Second, because of their psionic abilities, the Zhodani have the most effective authoritarian government in history. Imperial citizens, used to a great degree of local autonomy, fear Zhodani conquest because of the loss of freedom it would entail.

Government
The Zhodani Consulate is a participatory democracy in which only nobles are allowed to vote. Executive and judicial functions are the responsibility of a series of councils of varying sizes. Each council elects one of its number as executive officer, and a number of its members as delegates to the next higher council.

A city, for example, will elect several of its council members to be representatives to the world council. The process continues upward through several layers of councils to the overall Grand Council of the Zhodani. Nominally, each member of a council serves for one olympiad (three Zhodani years), but in practice each councillor serves until their replacement arrives and they are officially replaced, or until word of the delegate's re-election is received. Often, the district from which a councillor is elected will have only relatives as voters, and re-election is virtually assured.

Standard practice (when possible) calls for Zhodani councils to submit important questions to a plebiscite of those affected. The principle can be suspended where immediate action is required, but the official ordering the action stands responsible to the voters, and actions must be justified as soon as possible.

Supreme executive power is vested in three consuls, one elected each Zhodani year for a term of one olympiad by and from the members of the Grand Council. No consul may be elected twice in succession, and retired consuls become life members of the Grand Council.

History
Zhodani history is considered to properly begin with their arrival with the Ancients c. -300 000. However, the first documented evidence of a major culture on Zhodane is of a moon worshipping empire, ascendant between -1000 and -15000. Much of the elementary stone age knowledge was developed in this period.

The collapse of this empire lead to a dark age, until the emergence of a noble class and a feudal system c. -13000. The resultant encouragement of science and exploration resulted in settlement of much of Zhodane, and technological advancement to the point of elementary space flight. However, shortly afterwards a great plague decimated the population, and brought about a second dark age to the world. In the following period of recovery, psionics gained ascendance, and the development of the psionic aristocracy began.

The first psionic games were held in -6731, this being the first olympiad, and so the start of the Zhodani calendar. Space travel was reacquired, and the first sublight interstellar expeditions were mounted in c. -5000. Colonies were established on six worlds within four parsecs. In -523 the Zhodani Consulate was established between these worlds. Then, in -5415, jump drive was discovered.

The resulting expansion was gradual and uneventful. Although some states on the fringe resisted absorption into the Consulate, most were annexed peacefully. The Consulate first came into conflict with the expanding Imperium in the 500s, in disputes over the limits of present and future settlement of the Spinward Marches. The resulting Frontier Wars have done little to resolve the basic differences between the two empires.


Image of a male Zhodani and Zhodani battle armor:

@@@@zhodani.jpg

^^^^

Zhodani Calendar

The Zhodani calendar is based on the period of Zhodane around Plebor, its star. The Zhodani Shen (year) is 275.19 standard days (or 244.44 zhodanstial, Zhodane's day) in length, and is divided into six Shider of 40 zhodanstial, separated by one day holidays. Zhodani dating uses Thecuzodij (olympiad), which are three Shen. A Zhodani date is written as: Thecuzodij.Shen Slider/Zilodanstial, with special holiday names replacing the Shider/Zhodanstial where appropriate. For example 001-0000 Imperial (the date-the Imperium was founded) is equivalent to 2979.1 Atrint/7.

^^^^

Zhodani Consulate

The Zhodani give the name Driantia Zhdantia to their interstellar community. The name is commonly translated in Anglic as Zhodani Consulate. 

The consulate consists of about 6,500 systems spread through more than 175 subsectors. It is located spinward and coreward of the Imperium. 

The Zhodani do not have an Xboat system. Naval bases are directly linked by relay stations using fast couriers that also carry government mail. Naval bases and depots exist on important or threatened worlds. The equivalent of scout bases are simply naval bases that are oriented toward supporting survey or exploration operations. 

Most Zhodani worlds are TL7-11 averaging TL9-10. Forbidden Worlds (similar to Imperial Red Zones) have access prohibited by the Consulate: Military training grounds, planetary bombardment test ranges, Ancient sites, sources or rare or valuable resources, and secret Consular research stations. Unabsorbed worlds (equivalent to Amber Zones) are claimed and governed by the Consulate but not absorbed into the mainstream Zhodani culture. Reservation worlds belong to friendly non-Human races that have signed binding treaties with the Consulate. Essentially they are permanently unabsorbed worlds.

See Zhodani

@@@@zhodaniconsulate.jpg

^^^^

Zirunkariish

A Vilani banking and investment company. Unlike most other Vilani megacorporations, whose origins are shrouded in mystery, Zirunkariish is known to have been founded by the noble Vilani family of Shiishuginsa (a member of which, Antiama, married the emperor Zhakirov in 679) in the year -425.

Zirunkariish is one of the largest insurance underwriters in the Imperium, and while its capital reserves are gigantic, it usually chooses to invest them in various trusts rather than in other megacorporations. The megacorporation was a major source of the investment required for the expansion of the Sylean Federation into the Third Imperium.

Stock Ownership: Shiishuginsa- 29%, Imperial family- 18% Sharurshid trust-17%, Hortalez et Cie- 7%, Noble families- 12%, Investment trusts- 8%, Private ownership- 9%.

^^^^

Ziru Sirka

Vilani name for the First Imperium. Translates directly as The Grand Empire of Stars. See also First Imperium.

^^^^

Zuchai Crystal

These crystals form the raw material for a vital focusing element in many designs of jump drive. They occur naturally, but can also be synthesized. However, natural crystals have a longer lifetime, and so command a higher price (around Cr1000 per kilogram).

^^^^

Cinos Lines

Major Solomani shipping line operating in the Rim sector


Cinos diversifies, and its' operations range from small single-ship tramp crews to giant kiloton bulk traders. It's quite well known for not taking hijack or piracy attacks lightly, and its' security guards are famous. There is a strong rumour on the Imperial side of the border that said guards are trained by SolSec, something the company denies.

^^^^

SolSec 
(Solomani Security)

The Solomani Confederation's intelligence, political police and espionage force


Secret police force maintained in service to the Solomani Confederation for the purpose of maintaining state secrets, conducting espionage, and implementing political policies of the government.

Solomani Security maintains both a network of contacts which provide information from outside the Confederation and a network of informants which provide information within the Confederation. Solomani Security agents themselves are highly trained individuals capable of conducting espionage and sabotage.

^^^^

Sulamar

Creature found on Ariel in the Solomani Rim


Sulamar are seven feet tall, with thick shaggy white fur, deep body fat, and small curled horns. They have the ability to match their body temperature to the environment, a useful trick as most of their prey creatures have the ability to detect body heat.

^^^^

Dekan Teardrops

Dekan Teardrops, or Tears of Dekan, gems found (only) in the Aqilat belt in the Solomani Rim.


Very desirable for jewelry and ornamentation

^^^^

Android

Artificially created organic being. Technically "a synthetic man, created from biological materials." They exhibit life, in that they are biologically living; their distinction is that they were created, rather than having evolved.

Androids are created from a combination of cloning and genetic engineering . At tech level 14, DNA chains can be synthetically tailored to create desired characteristics, which means androids can take any form. Their general inability to reproduce results from the laws of most high-tech worlds rather than from technology.

Susceptibility to premature aging and sickness at TL14 limits their lifespan to 10-15 years.

^^^^

Ansing Expedition

Famous exploration of the accessable reaches of the gas giant Annikkittaar, Pretoria ( Pretoria / Deneb) system, in 870 to 884. Extensive use of specially designed exploration vessels, protective environment suits, and high technology equipment allowed the Ansing Foundation of Vland ( Vland / Vland 1717) to extensively map and explore the upper reaches of the gas giant's atmosphere.

^^^^

Answerin

Intelligent minor race of humaniti, native to Answerin ( Parsi / Vland 0431). Their world orbits a close binary system of a G0 V and an A7 II star, whose combined ultraviolet light has stimulated melanin production in the race. All Answerin have dark brown or black skin tones. Hair is likewise dark, with wavy hair being the most common. To protect their eyes from the twin suns, the Answerin have evolved slight epicanthic folds. In some individuals, these folds give an almost squinting appearance, while others could best be described as looking sleepy.

The lower gravity of Answerin has made the humans there taller than most others. Average height is about 1.9m tall and they weigh about 75kg. They are fully interfertile with most other human races, but prefer to marry amoung their own kind. Cross-breeding does not usually occur. The offspring of any cross-racial matchings results in little or no genetic blending - the child is either fully Answerin or will resemble the other parent's race.

Answerin is a hot world, and the humans there have adapted their circadian rhythms to a more nocturnal existence. The local day is 25 hours long, which is generally divided into eight hours of sleep during the day, nine hours of work during the evening, and eight more hours of rest at night. Through time, the Answerin have evolved an aptitude for night vision that is superior to other humans; they can see clearly for 5 metres in the dark. Other senses are about average for humans in most respects.

The Answerin have developed an almost strictly vegetarian diet due to a shortage of highly developed animals on their homeworld. They are not militaristic or chauvinistic about their vegetarianism as are the K'kree; they are merly unused to eating meat and thus prefer a vegetarian diet. The native plant life of Answerin possesses a compatable biochemistry with humans, so there is no need for any extensive food preparation.

The Answerin believe in the ability of the human mind to overcome physical difficulties. Pain and fatigue result from a laxity of the mind, and anyone is capable of overcoming merely physical ills. By conquering the frontiers of the human psyche, the Answerin believe they will be better able to master themselves physically, and with that mastery comes freedom from the physical. Fear is looked on as a disease of the mind, which must be eradicated to better the human condition.

The Answerin are renown for their fighting skills. This renown goes back to the days of the Vilani Ziru Sirka when the Answerin were used as shock troops and marines. Their skill is partly due to their rejection of fear and its resultant weaknesses, but it rumoured to have a physiological basis.

^^^^

Antebellum

Literally, "before the war". Generally, a historical term referring to the period within the Imperium prior to the Civil War. Specifically, the years 210 to 604, Imperial dating.

The antebellum period was characterised by expansion of the Imperium, with large-scale colonisation efforts, integration of numerous regions into Imperial society, and an overall mood of growth and exploration. With the end of the antebellum period, the Imperium turned more attention inward, devoting resources to internal development and consolidation.

^^^^

Arkesh Spacers

A merchant company based in the rimward area of the Spinward Marches. Attracted to anything with a profit in it, Arkesh's competitors (Baraccai Technum and McClellan Factors) state it to be "a predatory outfit, on the thin line between accepted commercial practice and downright piracy".

With a nominal headquarters on Strouden / Lunion (0707), Arkesh Spacers eschew regular bases, instead relying on (often criminal) contacts on many Marcher worlds to provide custom and maintain their vessels.

^^^^

All-Terrain Vehicle
ATV

ATV - The All-Terrain Vehicle is a wheeled or tracked vehicle designed to provide high-quality transportation on any number of worlds. It is intended for world surface exploration or transport across undeveloped areas. As such, an ATV can traverse all but the most forbidding terrain and is fully amphibious. The pressurised interior protects against vacuum and insidious atmospheres.

The standard ATV masses 10 HG tons and allows a payload of 6 tons (including driver and passengers). It may be powered by a battery, requiring solar recharging or a ship's power plant; more often it contains a small fusion plant. This requires refuelling with water or hydrogen every 24 hours, and so has a range of about 5000 km on good terrain. Wheeled versions cruise on-road at 60 kph, with a maximum speed of 100 kph on-road and 20 kph in rough terrain. Tracked versions cruise at 40 kph on-road, with a maximum of 80 kph on-road and 30 kph on rough terrain.

An ATV requires 1 driver and can carry up to 16 passengers. The vehicle contains complete (although cramped) eating, sleeping and travel facilities for 8 persons. The vehicle may be lightly armoured (factor-16) and can carry a turret mounting a laser or other local combat weapon.

^^^^

Baraccai Technum

An interface line which operates in the rimward area of the Spinward Marches.

With its headquarters on Trin (Trin's Veil 3235), Baraccai Technum is influential throughout the rimward worlds of the Marches; its wealth rests firmly on manufacturing, transport and brokerage interests. However, by no means unimportant are entrepreneurial connections with worlds beyond the Imperium in the Outrim Void.

The primary rimward base of BT is at the BT Centre at Glisten (Glisten 2036). This base is responsible for the Extra-Imperium Activity (EIA) Division. Primary base for this division is Berengaria ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 2105); it includes an orbiting BT maintenance & repair station. Similar bases exist at Cyan ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 2102), Pax Rulin ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 2204), and Alexin ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 2405). All Imperial worlds in the subsector, except red-zoned Rhysk ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 2304), have some sort of BT trading presence.

BT normally maintains trade relations with independent worlds by appointing a factor, usually a BT company man, but occasionally a native of the planet. Apart from the usual warehouse, living quarters, office and so on, each factor also has a small emergency ship repair facility for the use of BT vessels. BT has factors on Candia ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 1801), Kydde ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 1810), Bantral ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 1906), Senlis ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 2108), Magen ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 2309), and at T'yana ( Egryn / Trojan Reach 1602).

Primary BT rivals are Arkesh Spacers and McClellan Factors. On T'yana, BT and MC rivalry is especially hot.

^^^^

Battle Dress

Imperial Marine Assault Battledress, TL 15 The ultimate in individual protection, battle dress is a powered, strength-enhancing exoskeletal suit, surrounded by a carapace of multiple-layered synthetic armour. It is an advanced version of combat armour.

An in-built IR-masking system selectively bleeds heat to match background radiation, effectively rendering the wearer invisible to IR sensors. In a cold environment, the suit stores heat internally until this compromises operator safety, at which point the on-board computer advises the operator to seek a safe place to dump the waste heat.

A chameleon surface covers the outer armour, allowing it to change colour on operator command. Standard patterns include arctic, city, desert, forest, jungle and space, although others can be programmed into the suit.

Integral power-packs last for days and the life-support systems provide a sealed, self-sufficient environment for a minimum of 12 hours.

Battle dress enhances the strength and senses of individuals wearing it with variable feedback controls, servo-powered limbs, and various kinds of electronic assistance. The individual wearing battle dress is effectively doubled in strength and given unlimited endurance (for lifting, carrying and fighting purposes; not for wounds received). The user can adjust the strength to the situation (up to a max UPP of 30), but only experienced operators (Battle Dress 2+) can use this feature without damaging the manipulated object, or even the suit.

Zero-friction bearings and sound-suppression equipment built into the system make this imposing machine eerily quiet (the user receives a DM of +2 for surprise).

A standard combat package includes a continental-range directional/scrambled communicator, a tactical battle computer (to manage targets, provide current situation displays, and handle communications to a co-ordinating tac computer), and an advanced sensor package (heads-up targeting, IR and LI telescopic visor, micro/macro viewing, and remote televiewing from other sources).

Modular add-ons include grav "belt", extended life support (up to 36 hours), and an ECM module. Some suits (generally assault suits) include armoured chest plates, drop capsule fittings, and smoke and prismatic aerosol dispensers.

No weapons are integral, but a visible computer socket/link is placed on the chest front at the right and left shoulders where a rifle would normally be placed. This allows modular weapons to be linked with the suit. Weapons are chosen to suit the type of mission. Typical weaponry includes a removable arm-mounted laser carbine or rifle, along with one of the following: gauss rifle; RAM grenade launcher; PGMP-13 or PGMP-14; FGMP-14 or FGMP-15; or a tac nuke launcher.

A special version of battle dress (Type D) exists for Dolphins.

^^^^

Bilstein Yards

The Bilstein company of Glisten ( Glisten / Spinward Marches 2036) has achieved a high reputation for specialist starships of non-streamlined types. Though constructing on a small scale compared to builders like Ling Standard, Bilstein vessels are sought after due to their attention to customer's special requirements. Bilsteins are the major suppliers of private yachts to the March nobility and this provides the bulk of their output. Occasionally, however, a class of vessels such as the Leviathan-class merchant cruisers are turned out and several powered planetoid types have been constructed.

^^^^

Bionics
Replacement Body Parts

Prosthetics are mechanical body parts that are mass-produced, functional replacements. They are surgically installed by a medical professional, and are the most economical type of replacement body parts, available at TL 9+.

Bionics are mechanical body parts that are individually custom-designed replacements, with greater functionality than the original body part. Bionics are the most expensive type of replacement body part, available at TL 9+. Note that bionics also refers to a science concerned with applying data about the functioning of biological systems to solve engineering problems. The term cyborg is sometimes applied to a person with bionics.

Regrowth is a method of replacing body parts involving stimulating the body to regrow its missing part. At TL 9, missing limbs can be regrown, and at higher tech levels damaged non-vital organs can be regrown in place. Regrowth is more expensive (and time-consuming) than prosthetics, but is generally cheaper than cloning and bionics.

Cloning involves taking one or more cells from the donor and growing a replacement body part (not an entire clone) in an artificial womb. By TL 13, new body parts of any kind can be selectively cloned from the DNA of any body cell. Once grown, the new part is surgically attached to the donor. Cloning costs about the same as regrowth during the growing period, but surgical re-attachment of the new part is more expensive than any of the other options.

^^^^

Black Globe Generator

Black globes typify the incomprehensible artifacts of the Ancients. Each is a shiny metallic cube measuring 300 cm on a side. Two minor discolorations on the surface are the on/off switches. When activated, the generator projects a force field that absorbs all forms of energy (including light, hence the characteristic black color of the field) in a sphere around the device. Applying energy expands the sphere.

Black globe generators have been converted into rudimentary force screens for some select Imperial Navy vessels. Matter cannot penetrate the screen, and energy impinging on the screen is absorbed within the ship's energy capacitors (giving a measure of control over the device) and the mechanism itself. When the screen is dropped, the energy radiates away as heat.

The generator has several disadvantages. First, there is a lack of any contact through the screen, which prevents maneuver drive from working and calls for inertial navigation. Second, fields big enough to encompass typical larger fighting craft have proved inherently unstable; there is a danger that the capacitors will overload with absorbed energy. The result is an explosion, caused by a transfer of the absorbed energy to the interior of the ship.

Crude duplicates have been produced, but scientists are still a long way from understanding how they work. Neither the copies nor the original artifacts are available outside of the Navy.

^^^^

Superdense , Bonded SD , Coherent SD

A form of armor protection, superdense (SD) refers to a material that has had its molecular structure partially collapsed in a massive artificial gravity field (such as might be encountered in a white dwarf star), which increases its density and strength. Superdense becomes available at TL 12, and usually supplants previous materials used to armor starships and tanks.

Bonded superdense (BSD) is an improved form of superdense armor, with a small induced electronic current to strengthen the internal electron bonds which further increases strength. BSD provides the protection of SD for approximately half the weight, and becomes available at TL 14.

A theoretical further enhancement of superdense is coherent superdense, where bonded superdense armor is dynamically manipulated by input from the sensors and the computer so as to polarize the subatomic forces in the material's molecules, thereby presenting maximum penetration resistance to a specific striking force. Although experiments in this field are continuing, it is beyond the reach of current Imperial technology, and is postulated as being available at TL 17.

^^^^

Bradeeva

Name often given when referring to a fictional ship.

Rumors exist that the Imperial Navy recovered an entire Ancient starship, the Bradeeva, floating derelict in space between two solar systems in the Massilia sector. These recurring rumours are not consistent in precisely which solar systems were involved, or in exactly when this find was made.

In 806, the principal Geonee ambassador to the Imperium, Duke Valreega Neowashee, sued the Imperial Navy in a fruitless attempt to reclaim the vessel as Geonee property. A special commission established by the Imperial Moot determined that there was no truth to the rumors and closed the case.

^^^^

Brinn

Intelligent xenophobic minor race native to the world of Divad ( Sinta / Corridor 2238), descended from carnivore/killer stock. Physically, the Brinn look like Terran crabs or spiders, but have ten limbs.

The six hindmost limbs are thicker and provide locomotion. Each ends in a set of strong grasping claws. While useless in combat, they provide excellent traction on rough terrain.

The leading four limbs are manipulatory. The first pair are slender and terminate in manipulatory hands, each of which is made up of four fingers and two thumbs. These are similar enough to human hands to permit the use of many pieces of human equipment without modification or unusual difficulty.

The second set of limbs is heavier and each end in a trio of sharp talons. These are the primary close combat weapons of the Brinn. The talons are quite sharp and the great strength of the arms makes them deadly.

A large bump (the dorsal sense cluster) rises from the centre of the back, and serves as the primary sense organ. Six eyes around it provide 360 degree vision. Brin eyesight is primarily in the infra-red but is limited in visual light. Also in the dorsal cluster is the Brinn repiratory system and sense of smell. The outer surface of the cluster contains a vibrational sensor. It is not sensitive in the air, but when placed against the ground, it picks up vibration through the ground. Brinn converse by settling on the ground and thrumming with their legs. A heated argument involves much stomping!



Brinn were contacted by the First Imperium and eagerly accepted membership into the Ziru Sirka. However, the Rule of Man established a military government to keep the natives under control. The mutual co-operation of the First Imperium was replaced by violence, ordered by military despots of the Second.

The Brinn broke free in the Long Night and managed to drive the humans from their system. Their campaign of expansion included bombarding human worlds with small asteroids and nuclear weapons. However, their ships had been claimed from the fallen Second Imperium, and the Brinn could not repair them. Neighbouring human cultures were able to drive the Brinn back into their home system.

The Pacification Campaigns forced the Brinn to join the Third Imperium. The Brinn were again under foreign domination. During the Civil War, they attempted to throw off their human masters via a rebellion. Subsequent Imperial counterstrikes decimated the Brinn fleet, and their system was recaptured. It was discovered that the Brinn had killed every human left on the planet when the Imperium withdrew.

The Brinn have been under military rule since the recapture of their system.

^^^^

Clone

Biological copy of an existing being. A full-body clone is an "offspring" created from a single cell in the laboratory, rather than through the normal reproductive process. Such an offspring is a genetic duplicate of the single donor, and thus only has one parent. In all other respects, a full-body clone is identical to a normal offspring; the real oddity is the unnatural manner in which the offspring was conceived.

The clone is its own person, with its own mind just like any child of another. However, initially they have the minds of new-born children, and must be taught and educated just as any normal child.

The ability to create clones of higher life forms does not occur until tech level 10. Using growth quickening techniques an "adult" full-body clone can be grown in an artificial womb in about 2 years at that tech level. By tech level 13, growth time is down to 2 months.

Clones are often created of Imperial nobles. These are used as heirs until a natural heir is conceived. The polite term for these clones is true-son or true-daughter. For example, Seldrian Aledon is the true-daughter of Duke Norris Aledon of Regina ( Regina  / Spinward Marches 1920).

Humans and Hivers are the only major races to use clones to any degree. Aslan feel it is dishonourable, K'kree find such a "flesh-growing" technique distasteful, while Droyne and Vargr just don't bother.

^^^^

Combat Armor

Combat Armor - Unpowered exoskeletal suit, surrounded by a carapace of multiple-layered synthetic armor. Inexpensive when compared to battle dress, combat armor provides comparable protection.

The TL 11 version dampens heat signature by the use of a "chill can" inserted into the cooling system, in the same manner as the combat environment suit . At TL 12, a chameleon option becomes available, as per battle dress. Most options available for battle dress are available for combat armor; for instance, integral communications equipment is common.

Combat armor is strictly military and not available on the open market; it is issued to high-tech troop units and elite mercenary battalions.

^^^^

Craft Type Codes

Every class of starship has a Craft Type Code assigned to them. This enables the Imperial authorities to identify and classify ships for various purposes. Examples of use include awarding various grades of spaceworthiness certificates, establishing taxation rules for different ship types, and the level of inspection required for a customs clearance.

Standard practice is to quote the primary function of the craft first, then any secondary modifier (optional). This means that when a craft is described in Anglic the codes appear reversed.

Examples of Craft Types Code usage are: Type S Scout; Type A2 Free Trader; Type CM Missile Cruiser, Type VF Fleet Carrier.

Note that certain combinations denote other types; for example, BB indicates a dreadnought.



Code Primary Qualifier Secondary Qualifier

A Merchant Armoured 
B Battle Battle Boat 
C Carrier Close Cruiser Cruiser 
D Destroyer Destroyer 
E Escort Escort 
F Fighter Fast Frigate Fleet 
G Gig Gunned Refinery  
H Hunter Heavy 
I Intruder Imperial 
J Intruder Imperial  Jump 
K Pinnace Courier 
L Corvette Leader Lab Light 
M Medical Missile Merchant  
N Ferry Non-standard 
P Planetoid Provincial 
Q Auxiliary Decoy 
R Liner Raider Rescue  
S Scout Strike Station  
T Tanker Transport Tender Troop 
U Tug Unpowered 
V Carrier Vehicle 
W Barge Slow 
X Express Alternate 
Y Yacht Cutter  Shuttle 
Z Special Experimental 

^^^^

Imperial Standard Credit Card

The Imperial Standard Credit Card (ISCC) is a portable bank teller. A micro-processor unit tracks the account, and contains information for personal identification. Made of plasteel, the card is nearly indestructible. It is nearly tamper-proof; most attempts merely blank the card and leave an identifiable trace. Identification information consists of a thumbprint actuator and a record of the owner's retina print. The latter is checked for verification on all transactions over Cr100,000.

Residents of systems of TL 13+ accept the card. In such systems, purchases are sped up through this card's use and take only a fraction of the time to do a quick retina scan in a credit register's sensor.

The Travellers' Aid Society accepts the use of the credit card in all of its facilities for cash advances or other services. It also offers, for a modest lifetime fee, a similar TAS services card.

Only millionaires can obtain the iridium edition of the card. It contains the owner's DNA code, allowing for positive identification and practically unlimited reliability of credit. Starships have been purchased on these cards!

^^^^

Dating Systems
Unified Timeline

Three major dating systems are in use when referring to historical events within the Imperium - Terran, Vilani, and Imperial. Other races also have their own dating systems.

Terran dates centre on a year about midway through the period of Vilani ascendance. After that date, years ascend and are suffixed AD; before that date, years descend and are suffixed BC. There is no year zero. Terran years have 365 days and are considered a standard for length of year. Years are further subdivided into months and weeks, although these divisions have fallen into disuse outside the Solomani Sphere .

Vilani dates count from the year of the Establishment of the First Imperium (the Vilani Imperium). Those before are suffixed PI (Pre-Imperium); those after are suffixed VI (Vilani Imperium). There is no year zero. Vilani years are approximately 1.33 standard years in length (496 days). Vilani years are further subdivided into seasons, months, and weeks.

Imperial dates count from the year of the founding of the Third Imperium, specifying the year zero as a holiday year. Dates before that are negative; dates after that are positive, usually with the sign suppressed. Imperial dating uses a julian system for specifying days. Each day in the year is consecutively numbered beginning with 001. Thus, in the year 1105, the first day of the year is 001-1105. Weeks of seven days and months of 28 days are used to refer to lengths of time, but rarely to establish dates.

Zhodani dating is in olympiads (tleqazdijdiet). Each olympiad is of three Zhodani years; years are 0.75 standard years in length (273 days). An olympiad is used to mark the period from one set of Psionic Games to the next. Zhodani dates are given in olympiads, which are further subdivided into year, season, and day. The first olympiad corresponds to 2209 BC. The dating system itself has been in more or less continuous since then, with minor lapses due to war or temporary decline of ruling parties.

The Aslan calendar is based on the revolution of Kusyu ( Kilrai' / Dark Nebula 1919) around Tyeyo, its star. The Aslan year (ftahea) is about 320 standard days. A day (eakhau) is about 36 hours long. The same calendar is used on most Hierate worlds. There are no sub-divisions in the Aslan calendar; each day has its own unique name. The calendar takes as its starting point the first selection of the Tlaukhu as supreme council on Kusyu, about -2083 Imperial.

As in other things, the Vargr acknowledge no universal calendar. Individual planets impose years based on their own planet's movements; sometimes these standards are imposed across larger areas of space, but the is no true Vargr "standard year". Calendars date from whatever event the local populace cares to choose as a starting point. Imperial historians tend to assign dates in one of two forms, either according to the Imperial calendar, or based upon the Diaspora (Gvegh Vargr: gzokdae) or invention of interstellar travel by the Vargr in the year -3810. This latter is frequently used in giving dates to events in Vargr history.

^^^^

Free Trader

Free Trader is the term given to an independent interstellar merchant ship, which plys the space lanes carrying cargo and passengers. Usually, a free trader is a 200-ton vessel capable of jump-1. The Craft Type Code assigned to these ships is A. An example of this type of ship is the standard 200-ton Beowulf-class free trader.

@@@@beowulf.jpg

^^^^

Far Trader

Far Trader is a variant designation of a free trader. A far trader has a higher jump capacity than a free trader; usually a jump-2 capability (twice that of normal). The Craft Type Code assigned to this type of ship is A2. A standard example of this type is the 200-ton Empress Marava-class far trader.

^^^^

Deep Trader

Deep Trader is another, rarer, variant of a free trader. Built for areas of low stellar density, deep traders are jump-3 capable. The Craft Type Code assigned to this class is A3. Since these ships are generally custom-built or produced in low quantities, no standard example exists.

^^^^

Fat Trader (Subsidised Merchant)

Fat Trader is a disparaging term used to describe a Subsidised Merchant. This is a 400-ton merchant starship of ubiquitous design, generally run under the auspices of a world government (with a subsidy). Only capable of jump-1, the vessel has a much higher cargo capacity than its independent cousins. Even so, many independent merchants look on these ships with disdain, because they believe that receipt of the subsidy makes their captains and crew lazy. The Craft Type Code assigned to this class is R.

@@@@fattrader.jpg

^^^^

Denebian Spotted Fever

A mutated virus of high communicability and frequently devastating effects. The disease is transmitted by carriers who are themselves generally immune to it; they may suffer a slight illness after being exposed but recover quickly. The disease may then lie dormant for some time until triggered by environmental factors. These factors have not yet been identified with certainty, but would appear to be connected with life in artificial environments (shipboard living, asteroid or domed colony life).

Those who contract the disease will come down with it after 1-6 days. Symptoms include nausea, high fever, delirium, and an outbreak of dark red spots on the face, torso, hands and arms. The disease can rage for up to 12 days, depending on the level of attending medical expertise. Once a person has had the disease, however, he or she will be subject to recurrence every so often. Relapses last less than a week.

SuSAG has recently developed a pharmaceutical called GC96/B, specifically to combat Denebian Spotted Fever. This limits the initial fever to a period of three days or less. Doses must be kept refrigerated prior to use as temperatures above 50 degrees C cause the drug to break down rapidly into a worthless, inert substance.

Originally encountered on Deneb ( Usani / Deneb 1925), outbreaks of the virus have occurred throughout the Domain of Deneb .

^^^^

Disintegrator Beam

Fictional weapon which causes total destruction of any matter which comes into contact with the beam.

Within the Imperium, research has been conducted to confirm whether it is possible to create a disintegrator beam weapon. Work has generally concentrated on modifying the defensive weapon known as a nuclear damper. Theory suggests that if the strong nuclear force between subatomic particles could be weakened, a target's atoms would fly apart.

To date, no successful "disintegrator beam" weapon has been created.

^^^^

Diskhili Maneuver

A dangerous starship maneuver used to evade neutrino or EMS detection.

As popularised by Commander Diskhili during the Interstellar Wars, a ship enters a system at a great distance. Once the attacker is on the proper ballistic course, to the target, it shuts down its power plant, thus interrupting its neutrino emissions.

Since it takes time to power up the plant, and the onboard capacitors can only supply the weapons and screens for about 20 minutes in combat, the maneuver is risky. Nevertheless, the advantage of slipping past the first ring of defenders is so great that some captains will risk it.

A more standard use of this maneuver is simply to power down to a lower emission level. An enemy, detecting this low level, may underestimate the vessel's strength.

^^^^

Dolphins

Intelligent minor race originating on Terra ( Sol / Solomani Rim 1827), raised to sentience by the Solomani corporation GenAssist during the Rule of Man.

A typical male Dolphin (Tursiops galactus) measures between 2.75 and 3.95m from the tip of its powerful flukes to its snout, and weighs about 100 to 150kg. Females tend to be smaller and lighter, on average. Their skin is smooth to the touch, and tends to be a purple-black along the dorsal surface, shading to white or light gray on the underside. Layers of fat make their hide equivalent to jack armour. Their eyes are located in the darker section of the face.

The brain of a Dolphin is 1.5 times the size of a human, although this should not be taken as a sign of greater (or lesser) intelligence. For the most part, this difference is due to the greater mass of the Dolphin body. The original dolphin lifespan was about 20 years, but the enhanced Dolphins typically live 50 to 60 years. Anagathics are available, with prices, benefits and risks similar to those used by humans.

The main Dolphin sense centres on their very accurate echo-location system. Geneering has improved this to give a 100m range. Dolphin hearing is able to detect sounds ranging in pitch from 150 to 150,000 Hertz (by contrast, Terran cats can hear sounds up to 50,000 Hz, bats to 75,000 Hz, and humans only up to 20,000 Hz). Underwater eyesight is fairly keen, as it has been adapted for that environment. The lenses of their eyes are very globular and hence convex in nature in order to reverse the negative effects of aquatic reflection. However, this makes the Dolphin very near-sighted when out of the water. To counter this, many Dolphins wear corrective lenses when not in a Travel Suit (which has a special visor built-in).

The diet of Dolphins, like their semi-sentient ancestors, is wholly carniverous. Modern Dolphins do take great joy in sampling new foods and tastes. A Dolphin requires 110 calories per kg per day to sustain itself. This is far greater than the human need of 50 calories per kg per day. This translates to roughly 10% of body mass, per day.

Typical members of Tursiops galactus can dive for up to 15 minutes without respirator assistance. In practice, many wear tanked air supplies to allow a greater endurance for underwater operations. When swimming near the surface, Dolphins breathe 2 to 6 times per minute, increasing up to 8 after a long dive or period of exertion. Unlike humans, who normally use only 12.5% of their lung capacity, Dolphins almost completely empty and fill their lungs with every breath. Also, they store much more oxygen in their blood and muscle tissues than humans, which allows them to make such prolonged dives.

A single glance at the Dolphin body is enough to reveal the perfection of their streamlining. Nowhere in explored space is there a creature so perfectly evolved in a hydro-dynamic sense. As a rule of thumb, Dolphins can maintain 40 kph when swimming and can attain burst speeds of up to 60 kph.

Although normal swimming depth is above 30m, Dolphins can dive up to 200m in extreme cases (humans can only manage 125m unprotected). Furthermore, the physiology of a Dolphin is such that they are wholly immune to caisson disease ("the bends") which is a constant hazard to human divers.

The natural evolution of cetaceans on Terra is still something of a mystery, even to sciences of the 57th century (Terran dating). However, their "uplifting" to sentient status is well documented. The Solomani corporation GenAssist , established to adapt Terran native lifeforms to alien climates, saw a need for creatures that could assist in colonising and developing worlds with high hydrographic percentages. To that end, GenAssist began research on dolphins during the Rule of Man . As other species were dropped from GenAssist 's overall project, the dolphins had the full attention of the company trained on them, and rapidly attained true intelligence. In -1988, just prior to the collapse of the Rule of Man , a handful of Dolphin colonies were seeded along the rimward frontiers of what is now the Solomani Sphere .

In the centuries since, the Dolphins have proved themselves to be fantastically adaptive and very loyal to the Solomani government. The reason for their loyalty has very little to do with political philosophies, as Dolphin psychology is radically different from their human patrons. Rather, each and every Dolphin is acutely aware that the Solomani gave them the gift of sentience, and they feel indebted to the Terrans for this. The Solomani have not discouraged this way of thinking; in fact, they have fostered it.

Dolphin culture is based on a belief in total equality. Everything is shared equally and each citizen is entitled to the full benefits of the society's capabilities. They are unable to understand many concepts which seem almost absolute to humans; for example, the ideas of property and land ownership. If one Dolphin has a tool that another needs, the latter simply takes the tool and returns it after use (is is customary to ask if the current holder has finished with the object first, but this is not unlike a human request to "borrow" an item). Further, the concept of land ownership is beyond them. They point out that "the sea is always in motion, so how can you claim a portion of it as yours?" In the same way, the land is in motion (although far more slowly), and similar reasoning results.

These concepts can result in problems when Dolphins interact with other lifeforms. On starships, for instance, Dolphin passengers have been known to take objects (such as jewelry) which appealed to them, without asking permission if the object did not seem to be currently in use. If confronted with the "theft", they gladly admit to it and cheerfully return the object as long as they have finished "using" it. Dolphins who have spent a great deal of time among other races eventually learn that this is considered improper behaviour by many others. At this point, they usually modify their behaviour and ask to use things which others seem attached to. In such cases, they see this as a game they must play in order to "fit in".

Dolphins do not usually gather in large communities, but live in extended family groups of between 15 and 20 individuals. Family groups interact frequently, and it is not uncommon for two or more of them to dwell very near to one another. They simply do not have a structural society such as envisioned by humans and others. In most cases, colony worlds composed primarily of Dolphin settlers are classified by the Scouts as government code 0 (anarchy).

The actual number of individual Dolphins varies widely from world to world. On Terra, the original dolphins are extinct (they still thrive on a few other worlds, though) and the latest census counted about 2.5 million Dolphins.

While Dolphins are well-adapted for aquatic environments, they are handicapped when removed from them. In order to overcome such difficulties, science has come up with a number of devices which make life much more pleasant for Dolphins who must function out of the water.

The first and by far the most important of these is the Travel Suit (or TeeSuit). This is the Dolphin equivalent to a vacc suit, and contains a super-humid environment. A grav "belt" and an in-built commo system allows a Dolphin to move around and communicate when out of the water.

The second device is the waldo. A serious handicap which Dolphins suffer is their lack of manipulatory appendages. This is unheard of in naturally occurring sophont species, but is not uncommon among the Solomani's "uplifted races". To overcome this problem, human scientists created mechanical manipulatory devices known as waldos. Waldos act as artificial "arms", which permit a dolphin to handle objects almost as well as humans. At TL 12, neural control plugs are available to be surgically implanted into the skull of a Dolphin. Waldos can then be plugged in, allowing them to be directed by nerve impulses.

Finally, Dolphin starships have certain modifications specifically tailored to their occupants. The most instantly obvious change is that such craft maintain a zero-gravity field aboard them at all times (even while grounded) so that the crew can move freely about without TeeSuits. The atmosphere is a standard oxygen-nitrogen composition, but is very humid. This maintains normal moisture levels for the crew without having to keep compartments flooded. The ship is controlled by waldos or direct cybernetic links, as described above.

^^^^

Donosev-class Survey Scout

Donosev-class Survey Scout, with detached cutter, in asteroid belt Imperial Interstellar Scout Service design created specifically to resurvey the interior regions of the Imperium, updating maps and charts, and maintaining beacons and markers for astrogation hazards.

The ship is catagorised as Type SZ, or "Scout Experimental", and in fact three different versions of this ship have been built. The most recent, described here, was the result of improvements to sensor placement made during the Second Survey .

As is the case with most modern Scout vessels, the Donosev-class is not equipped for use in hostile areas.

The class is named after Master Chief Surveyor Villemina Donosev. Individual ships are named for famous scouts in the Imperial service.

^^^^

Dreadnought

A dreadnought is a superbattleship, designed to be the best possible battleship. The Imperial Navy places the dreadnought class designation on its latest, most effective battleships, redesignating them simply as battleships when their superior abilities are supplanted by newer construction.

The concept of a dreadnought does not mean that battleships are not built as well. Due to the expense of dreadnoughts, the Imperial Navy also acquires battleships.

^^^^

L-Hyd Tanks ( Drop Tanks )

Disposable liquid hydrogen fuel tanks used by starships to increase their fuel load. These tanks are fitted to the outside of a starship, and drop away before jump. The result is more interior space available for cargo and passengers.

Such "drop tanks" must be replaced each time they are used, so they are practical only on runs to civilised areas, or to increase fuel capacity to allow several jumps.

L-Hyd tanks are installed outside the hull, and increase the total tonnage of the ship; this reduces the efficiency of the jump drives. With tanks retained, efficiency is decreased, and jump capability is reduced; when the tanks drop away, tonnage is reduced, the drive efficiency is increased, and jump capacity increases. Drop tanks can create radical changes in ship performance.

^^^^

Jump Troops
Drop Troops

Specially trained units assigned to planetary invasions. Jump troops (also known as drop troops) are inserted into planetary atmospheres from orbit, free-falling to the ground in individual re-entry drop capsules.

Speed and shock are the best weapons of jump troops. Their sudden arrival only a minute after they appear as a meteor shower in the sky can cause surprise and chaos in even the best of opposing units. Jump troops are usually used to secure landing zones before the main invasion forces arrive. The LZ can be a starport or just a patch of open ground, but the task of the jump troop force is to secure the perimeter and wait for reinforcements.

The other main use for jump troops is in commando raids on specific objectives; for example, fire control sensors for a deep meson gun site, or economic targets such as a starport or power station. Once the mission is over, the troops are quickly extracted by assault shuttle .

Jump troops are relatively lightly-armed infantry, generally equipped with battle dress and whatever support weapons can be man-carried. They need quick reinforcement by regular line units, heavy weapons and armour before thay are overwhelmed by counter-attacks. Note that all Imperial Marines are drop-trained, along with specialised units of the Imperial Army.

Four types of drop capsule are available: basic drop capsules, combat assault capsules, advanced combat assault capsules, and decoy capsules.

^^^^

Duchy of Oasis

The Duchy of Oasis is an alliance of worlds dating back to the obscure times of the Long Night . It includes 44 worlds of Oasis and Wolf subsectors within Zarushagar sector.

When the expanding Third Imperium came upon the Duchy, these worlds were reluctant to join the new empire. They believed that their worlds did not need any outside help. After much economic and political pressure, Cleon 's ambassadors finally managed to coax the worlds of the Duchy to become Imperial member worlds.

Many worlds of the old Duchy were never completely happy with Imperial rule, and during the Ilelish Rebellion in the 400's, the Duchy tried to declare its independence once again. Emperor Martin III swiftly brought massive Imperial forces to bear, and the worlds reluctantly backed down. They had little choice in the matter, since their only other option was possible widespread destruction of their systems. His bloodless victory secure, Martin III also ordered the Oasis subsector capital moved to Megalmatree ( Oasis / Zarushagar 2826), and Oasis ( Oasis / Zarushagar 3130) was stripped of all political power at the Imperial level.

^^^^

Dust Spice

Rare euphoric spice used for seasoning food, especially fruit. Harvested from the bark of desert scrub plants, this seasoning is popular with humans as a mild recreational spice with effects slighter than, but similar to, that of alcohol.

Certain non-human races (notably Aslan and Vargr) find dust-spice a much more powerful euphoric, and it is in constant demand by those races.

Dust-spice can be sold for Cr12,000 to Cr22,000 per kilogram on a number of worlds within the Spinward Marches.

^^^^

Dynchia

Intelligent minor race of humaniti, native to Melantris ( Yuddunn / Leonidae 0603). Dynchia are about 2.2m in height and weigh about 100 kg. They are slender and long-limbed. Skin tones range from pale to bronze-tan; hair colour is usually brown or black, but snowy white hair is not uncommon. The Dynchia have six fingers on each hand, and six toes on each foot. Their teeth actually consist of two bony "jaws" (as if their teeth had been fused into one upper and one lower "jaw") with fang-like extrusions. These physical differences appear to have been geneered by the Ancients.

As well as the physical divergence, two elements of human psychology (to protect females from danger, and to possess land) appear to have been left out of or modified in the Dynchia. Firstly, the Dynchia have absolute equality of the sexes; prejudice against or protection of one sex is psychologically impossible. Secondly, a Dynchia is not a citizen of a particular world; he is a member of a clan, which in turn is a member of a tribe. A tribe may rule anywhere, as territory is not important.

The Dynchia have a rare and unusual quality: they are warrior individualists in an un-warlike culture. That is, they never make war upon their own race, although fights, duels, and challenges are common, as is a warrior ethic. Their culture is completely independant of territory. The social basis of Dynchia mentality is a deep sense of honour, both personal and as part of their clan or tribe. The general religion of the Dynchia is reverence for ancestors and worship of tribal heroes. To be false to one's honour is to forfeit a chance to become a revered ancestor.

At coming-of-age, all individuals go through an extensive series of trials, to determine their right to the status of adulthood. Seven percent fail - and die. Thus, all adults are skilled warriors. The military are merely the cream of the crop, specialising in combat arts. For this reason, it is generally considered impossible to conquer a Dynchia world.

Dynchia government is based on councils, each consisting of the top ranking members of each tribe present. The highest of these councils is the Council of the Twelve , which rules all of the Comitia , and speaks for all the tribes. The highest ranking clan of each tribe is the Prince of that tribe, and sits on the Council . The military is subject only to the Council of the Twelve , and exempt from responsibility to clan or tribe.

The Dynchia have a low tech level (TL 12) but are not hampered by this. Not only is it higher than most TL's in the region, but the Dynchia have an added advantage - they have refined their designs for maximum efficiency. They may not have fusion guns, but they have the best laser rifles in all of known space, and the same applies of the rest of their industry.

A low rate of population expansion gives them time to fully develop a world before they are forced to expand by population pressure. As an example of the degree of perfection Dynchia designers have achieved, it may be mentioned that their homeworld, Melantris ( Yuddunn / Leonidae 0603) has a population of over 4 billion, but has no pollution problems. Their architecture is famous for its beauty and perfection.

^^^^

Sphereworld
Dyson Sphere

Using incredibly strong materials similar to those in a ringworld, and adding gravity generators where necessary for strength and comfort, a spherical shell could be built to completely enclose a star.

Such a shell would then trap all stellar radiation for use by the civilization. With a radius of 149 million kilometers (about 93 million miles), the internal surface area would equal about one billion Earths.

First posulated by Terran scientist Freeman Dyson prior to contact with the Vilani, no extant examples of a sphereworld are known to exist.

Also see planetoid, rosette, ringworld.

^^^^

Dzofakael

A manufacturer in the Vargr Extents, well known for its sturdy heavy equipment and ship armaments. Among its heavy equipment products are bulldozers, backhoes, tractors, and small fusion-powered locomotives. Their other products are heavy lasers, PGMP-13s , sandcasters, and ship hull armor.

In the Imperium, Dzofakael would be classified as an interface company , as it crosses so many Vargr borders. Among the Vargr, this is considered normal, and Dzofakael is considered to be a sector-wide company .

^^^^

Earleatrais

"Referee" or "judge" (from the Trokh language). A male Aslan appointed from a neutral clan to provide impartial rulings.

In the Aslan Hierate, crimes with victims are resolved by the appointing of an earleatrais, who considers all of the available evidence and makes his rulings accordingly.

Ritual duelling also employs an earleatrais in order to ensure that the Ktyuikeasiyyorl ("The Words Under Which We Die") is followed to the letter. The is the "code duello" of the Aslan, and sets out all aspects of the ensuing combat.

The most honourable role of an earleatrais is to oversee a ritual clan war between other clans. The appointment of an earleatrais always brings great honour to the clan to which he belongs. Even more honour can be gained if the earleatrais renders a decision which is not only fair, but allows each side in the dispute to walk away with as much pride and honour as possible.

^^^^

Eldorado

Name of the Imperial strike cruiser which made first contact with the Islands Clusters in the centre of the Great Rift.

The Eldorado misjumped into the center of the Great Rift in 986, near the end of the Third Frontier War. The crew was surprised to discover two subsectors inhabited by Terrans using sleeper ships . The Eldorado eventually returned to the Imperium with the news. The IISS has worked with the individual worlds since then.

^^^^

Energy Weapons

Any one of a number of weapons which fire a highly energized beam of ionized gas at their targets, causing damage by their intense heat and kinetic energy. Hydrogen fuel is heated to a plasma state by a powerful laser ignition system, then released through a magnetically focussed field along the weapon's barrel.

The class can be further subdivided into plasma and fusion guns. Fusion guns contain the plasma slightly longer until a fusion reaction begins to take place. The extra firepower this produces makes the fusion gun the more powerful weapon in this class.

Energy weapons range in size from man-portable models, through battlefield weapons mounted on tanks, to starship turret weapons for use in deep space. The largest are contained in large batteries known as bays .

^^^^

Escorts

Small starships of up to 20,000 tons intended to be light support craft for larger ships, primarily cruisers. Escorts are also widely used for convoy protection and commerce raiding roles.

Close escorts (CE) are very small starships intended for anti-piracy operations in organised squadrons. An example is the Gazelle-class Close Escort.

Destroyer escorts (DE) are the first type capable of accompanying a regular Imperial fleet. They are also used for convoy protection, orbital patrols, police operations, garrison duties, and even limited strike missions. An example is the Chrysanthenum-class Destroyer Escort .

Fleet escorts (FE) are the largest of the escorts. They are primarily designed to accompany Imperial fleets. However, some classes have often been sent on independent missions - gunboat diplomacy, showing the flag, orbital support of ground operations, transport of diplomats or refugees, fleet courier operations, and even flagship duty for some smaller squadrons. An example is the P. F. Sloan-class Fleet Escort .

^^^^

Eskayloyt

"Lost Home" (from the Droyne language, Oynprith).

Droyne name for the lost Droyne homeworld. The location of the world is believed to have been in the Spinward Marches, Deneb, or Trojan Reach sectors. This is due to the large number of Droyne worlds and Ancients sites.

Casual observers call the world Droynia. The proper name, Eskayloyt, appears independently in myths on three scattered Droyne worlds: Andor ( Five Sisters / Spinward Marches 0236), Zeen (?????/????? 99999), and Auitawry ( Binary / Trojan Reach 3140). The name is accepted by the majority of scientists researching Droyne origins.

Characteristics of the homeworld are difficult to determine, but some have been predicted by an analysis of the Droyne themselves. Eskayloyt was a small world with a standard or dense atmosphere, plus a significant hydrosphere. The range of statistics most frequently given are Size 3 to 6, Atmosphere 6 or 8 (probably 8), and Hydrosphere 3+. The flying ability of the Droyne relies on a fairly weak gravity and a reasonably high pressure; a hydrosphere is required for the development of life.

The data and assumptions about Eskayloyt have led to many theories about its location and fate. No known world provides the fossil evidence that it was Eskayloyt; active searches and excavations are underway on several worlds that show promise. Some scholars have proposed that the homeworld was destroyed in the Final War.

^^^^

Hiroshi Estigarribia 

Founder of the Rule of Man.

After the Terrans had defeated the Vilani Imperium, they moved quickly to occupy the territory of the former empire. Terra voted to rule the Vilani worlds directly, as part of the Terran Confederation. The colonies resented this, believing that their autonomy would dissappear.

Admiral Hiroshi Estigarribia, commander-in-chief of the Confederation Navy , was sympathetic to this viewpoint. He also realised that the Confederation government could not possibly control the vast Vilani colonies. Accordingly, he proclaimed himself Regent of the Vilani Imperium and Protector of Terra, uniting both human states under the Rule of Man in -2204 (2314 AD). When he addressed the new empire, he used the term "Solomani" for the first time.

Upon Hiroshi's death, his chief-of-staff crowned himself Emperor Hiroshi II (retrospectively naming the Admiral as Emperor Hiroshi I).

^^^^

Ethueng

Major Vargr pirate organisation.

Anticipating that the Kforuzeng would disband, Tukera Lines encouraged a major group to split off in 1115, and transferred its dealings for protection to them.

The relationship between Ethueng and Tukera is remarkably close. The Ethueng prey on other Imperial traders in Vargr space competing with Tukera, particularly Oberlindes Lines.

^^^^

Ramscoop Jumpship
Exatar Project

A ramscoop jumpship is designed to gather interstellar hydrogen before and after a jump. In theory, if such a ship could operate efficiently, it would never need to refuel at a gas giant or starport and would have essentially limitless range. The ship's disadvantage is that it takes many weeks of constant acceleration on maneuver drives to gather enough hydrogen for a jump.

The best-known example is the experimental craft Exatar, designed in -248 by the Interstellar Confederacy (a rival to the Sylean Federation ). It was moderately successful in tests in and around Confederacy space, and two more ships, the Macnamara and Esdyla were started in -241. Unfortunately, the building yards on the moon of of Sketola ( Bunkeria / Core 0622) were captured during the first stages of the Civil War of the Interstellar Confederacy , and the rebels destroyed the two new ships in their yards. The Exatar was captured intact by the rebels and used as a spyship throughout the conflict; it was decommissioned shortly after the war ended.

^^^^

Exile Camp

A location committed to the containment of individuals guilty (or presumed guilty) of political crimes of discontent. Government controls are usually restricted to the retention of the inmate, and a general oppression of the population.

^^^^

Federation of Arden

Independent, human-inhabited federation located in the demilitarised neutral area between the Zhodani Consulate and the Imperium.

Arden ( Vilis / Spinward Marches 1011) was absorbed by the expanding Imperium in 290. However, it was made independent as part of the armistice of 986 which ended the Third Frontier War. Recently, Arden became imperialist, expanding its dominion by absorbing Zircon ( Jewell / Spinward Marches 1110) and Utoland ( Jewell / Spinward Marches 1209).

As a small and relatively weak government, the Federation has chosen neutrality as its course toward self-preservation. This neutrality is of a passive nature; its systems have been declared conditionally open; any belligerent may enter any of the systems for replenishment and refuelling. Arden 's own defence fleet stands ready to defend the system and segregate ships of the belligerents into designated areas of the systems. Arden 's neutrality has made the Federation a clandestine meeting place for agents of all sides - for intelligence gathering and negotiation.

The Federation is controlled by the Arden Society , a small group of dedicated individuals who become members through contributions of finance or labour. The government is extremely repressive.

^^^^

Fledgling Lines

The beginners at interstellar trade and transport are the fledgling lines. Some are free traders who have been diligent enough (or lucky enough) to make some money, and that money has been invested in additional ships. Others are veterans of the larger lines, now gone into business for themselves. Still others are partnerships, usually of several independent ship owners who have banded together to create a merchant line. A few are just businessmen, lucky enough to be awarded a merchant subsidy, and are now trying to make it turn a profit.

Nine out of ten fledgling lines fail within the first five years. Of those remaining, nine out of ten barely break even. That one of a hundred remaining, however, eventually moves up to a higher standard - perhaps as an interface line, perhaps as a subsector-wide line. Fledgling lines are the most common lines, the most risky, and have the greatest potential, however slim the chance of achievement.

An example of a fledgling line is UTP.

^^^^

Flicking

Psionic investigators have blended psionics and technology to produce psionically sensitive switches which can sense very basic psionic activity. They can be tripped by anyone (psionically trained) who has learned the technique called flicking. Switches are elementary on-off devices which respond to a command by shifting from state to the other. They can be used to operate light or communicator switches, or other devices.

Psionic switches are illegal in the Imperium. Most Zhodani ships are equipped with such as components of iris valves, automatic doors, and many lights, temperature, or environment controls, and entertainment or communication devices.

^^^^

Florian League

League of worlds situated in the Trojan Reach and Beyond sectors. The Floriani began to expand from their homeworld Floria ( Yggdrasil / Trojan Reach 0213) in -170. Contact with the Imperium followed in 185. The Florian League itself was formed in 506. The League is governed by a hierarchy of councils, where councillors are chosen from among the Barnai populace by lottery.

^^^^

Forboldn Project

The primary colonisation project within the Regina subsector. Originally conceived in 987 to utilise the resources of Forboldn ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1808), the project began its execution phase in 1089, shortly after the Fourth Frontier War. Large numbers of colonists were recruited and shipped in cold sleep from the Imperial core, with arrival times set from 1110 to 1120. Simultaneously preparations on Forboldn began, with detailed planetary surveys to pinpoint resources and initial building projects to prepare industry and quarters for the arrival of colonists.

An interesting aspect of such colonisation projects is the recruitment method used to supply the personnel who will actually make the colony function. Since virtually no amount of money will entice an individual to leave their home and livlihood for the bleak desolation of a colony world, the Ministry of Colonisation has established several programs to produce colonists. Most obvious is the colonise in lieu of prison term program. However, several other programs have also shown signs of success. In the unemployment insurance program, High Population worlds have successfully used the colonisation project as a means of reducing unemployment over the long term. In a similar medical insurance program, indigenes unable to obtain medical treatment are provided with their needs in exchange for signing on to a colony.

The needs of a colony for skills are met through the anagathics program; qualified (and aged) individuals can be provided with anagathics to extend their life spans in return for their providing such skills as administration, mechanical crafts, or medical expertise. Finally land grants to retiring veterans has provided a cadre for the new colony's military and police forces.

There have been reports that the colonisation project is lagging behind, and that the arrival of the colonists will be delayed by at least 10 years. The delay appears to be due to the social and civil unrest at the coreward end of the Regina subsector.

^^^^

Peace of Ftahair

Treaty which ended the Aslan Border Wars (-1118 to 380) and created a 30-parsec-wide buffer zone between the Aslan Hierate and the Third Imperium.

This zone indirectly fostered the growth of many smaller interstellar governments and resulted in many independent systems within Reaver's Deep.

^^^^

Fueznuzorg

A special organization within the Kforuzeng.

This most feared group is seldom involved with piracy and raiding. Instead, the Fueznuzorg's primary purpose is seeking vengeance against the corsair groups that abandoned the Kforuzeng, particularly the Ethueng. It also serves as an internal policing organization within the Kforuzeng.

^^^^

Full Imperium Party

This offshoot of the One Imperium Movement believes that all humans should be brought under one interstellar government.

Where the One Imperium Movement wants to annex the Julian Protectorate and the Solomani Confederation , this group goes further. Because the Zhodani are humans, they should also be conquered and forced to live like "decent people."

In 1098, the Imperium prosecuted several high ranking members of the Full Imperium Party for the high justice crimes of bribing Imperial officials in the Spinward Marches sector and the attempted theft of a 500,000-ton naval dreadnought.

^^^^

G-Carrier

TL 12 Resolve-class G-Carrier; An enclosed, armored military or paramilitary grav vehicle, intended for troop carrier duties. With performance similar to that of an air/raft, the G-carrier generally has a gun mount and a rear hatch door. It requires a crew of one driver (with air/raft skill), plus a gunner for the weapon, if any. It can carry 14 persons in total, plus two tons of cargo (or 250 kg of cargo for each person not carried). Thus driver, gunner and 5 tons of cargo is its maximum capacity.

Various examples include the Resolve (TL 12), Lopec (TL 15) and Kankurur (TL 15) classes of G-Carriers.

^^^^

GSbAG
(Geschichtkries Sternschiffbau AG)

Founded, according to company propaganda, in -2438 from a consortium of old Terran manufacturing firms. In actual fact, there is no concrete evidence of the corporation's existance prior to a contract with the Sylean Federation Navy in -334. Unlike other manufacturers, GSbAG (populary known as Gas-bag) has restricted itself almost exclusively to the manufacture of starships since its earliest known existance.

Unlike other manufacturers, GSbAG (popularly known as "Gas-bag") has restricted itself almost exclusively to the manufacture of starships since its earliest known existence. Its products command extremely high prices, but the quality justifies the price. GSbAG is one of two firms charged with the manufacture of the personal vessels of the Imperial family, and is a major contractor for the Imperial military.

GSbAG is one of two firms charged with the manufacture of the personal vessels of the Imperial family and is a major contractor for the Imperial military. Their products command extremely high prices, but it is generally conceded that the quality makes them well worth it.

Stock ownership: Hortalez et Cie- 19%, Imperial family- 4%, Noble families (includes the families of the legendary founders)- 44%, Other corporations- 13%, Private investors- 4%, Other- 16%.


^^^^

Gazelle-class Close Escort

Gazelle-class Close EscortAn Imperial Navy standard class built by the hundreds, and a common component of Navy task forces in the Spinward Marches.

Designed specifically to protect the line-of-battle against enemy skirmish forces and for general escort duty, the class is well-armed for its size and type.

L-Hyd fuel tanks may be dropped in extreme circumstances, allowing jump-5. The tanks must be replaced unless a severe reduction in jump ability is to be tolerated.

^^^^

Geonee Cultural Region

An area within the Massilia sector, made up of eight worlds populated by the Geonee. The Geonee are a minor race of humaniti, native to Shiwonee ( Shiwonee / Massilia 1430).

The Geonee Cultural Region is rich in Ancient artifacts. The Imperium has verified that artifacts have been recovered from Lagna ( Shiwonee / Massilia 1029) and Shiwonee ( Shiwonee / Massilia 1430); the Geonee themselves claim that all eight of their worlds were originally inhabited by the "Geonee"; that is, the Ancients.

One interesting point is that all eight systems contain extensive asteroid belts. The Geonee claim that these are the remnants of worlds destroyed in the Final War, but most Imperial scientists dispute this, while admitting that the frequency of belts is, statistically speaking, unusually high.

The Shiwonee system has three asteroid belts; Shiwonee itself is quite active, seismically, with quakes being common and 44 active volcanoes dotting the globe.

^^^^

Gerontocracy of Ormine

Small interstellar government primarily found in the Akhlare subsector of the Dark Nebula sector. The citizens consist mainly of Ormine, with a small scattering of Solomani humans.

Although nearer to the Aslan Hierate than the Solomani, historical reasons mean that the Gerontocracy is part of the Solomani political sphere.

^^^^

Gl'lu

Intelligent minor race native to Kubishush ( Inar / Deneb 0917). Their planet circles at the outer edge of their star's habitable zone, giving them average temperatures of -40 degrees C. A dense nitrogen atmosphere hides ammonia seas and geologically active terrain.

The Gl'lu are a hermaphroditic species sporting four arms and three legs on their stout bodies. Crowning their heads are three eye stalks. Oxidation of the ammonia in the air drives their metabolism.

^^^^

Highleaf

One of the most potent drugs known to man, worth up to Cr25,000 per kilogram in the Imperium. It is extremely addictive, and can be quite dangerous to humans if used too often or if properly processed. To K'kree, !xug'k is a mildly narcotic agricultural product almost as stimulating as a glass of wine is to a human. In K'kree space, highleaf is worth about Cr25 per kilogram.

^^^^

Hkahaoseahe

Legendary clan of ancient Aslan tradition, often claimed as ancestors by various distinguished clans of contemporary Aslan society. The exploits of the Hkahaoseahe are recorded in the cycle of epics traditionally grouped together under the title of Siyreakhaotoior. These epic poems and stories are among the oldest and best-known of Aslan literature.

^^^^

Hlanssai

Intelligent minor race descended from intermittent/gatherer stock native to the world Vrirhlanz (unplaced, Vargr Extents). Humanoid in shape, the Hlanssai average 2.1m tall, but are only 55 to 60kg in weight, making them tall and slender. Their bodies are 50% fur-covered; their most striking visual feature is their head, with its two large eyes and two even larger ears.

Hlanssai intelligence was the product of the need to analyse and comprehend the sensory data gathered through their acute senses. As a result, their psychology is oriented towards immediate sensual awareness. Their philosophy is generally sensualistic, frequently dismissive of the long term, and notoriously sybaritic and hedonistic. Response is given to a situation, with no thought as to the long-term consequences - and often, therefore, dramatically.

Beyond the Vargr Extents, the Hlanssai are widely seen as enigmatic, unstable, intelligent and interesting; Hlanssai attitudes toward other races vary, but generally involve curiosity mixed with ironic humour.

^^^^

Hortalez et Cie, LIC
Imperial megacorporation

Primarily a banking and investment house, Hortalez et Cie specialises in loans to planetary governments, bonding mercenary units, underwriting all sorts of large-scale projects, and other fiscal activities. Hortalez is one of the major insurance houses in the Imperium. In some regions, including the Spinward Marches, it serves as a mercenary clearinghouse.

Lucienne Hortalez founded the corporation in 221 with capital from family funds.

Interests: Banking, investments, finance arrangements.

Stock ownership: Imperial family, 5%; Hortalez family, 74%; Naasirka, 7%; Zirunkarish , 5%; Makhidkarun, 3%; Other, 6%.

^^^^

Imperial Academy of Science and Medicine

The IASM is the training-ground for most of the top Imperial scientists, medical practioners, researchers. Founded in 341 by Imperial decree, by 950, branch campuses had spread to 31 worlds throughout the Imperium. The Academy is known and respected beyond the Imperium's borders, and researchers affiliated with the Academy are received with all the pomp usually reserved for visiting dignitaries.

The Academy was the chief instigator in the creation of the Imperial Science Union, a major research organisation.

The Academy contains 4 colleges: the College of Medicine, the College of Physical Sciences, the College of Social Sciences, and the College of Engineering. Graduates obtain a doctorate, may be accepted as a member of the Imperial Science Union, and may even be granted one of the Union's lab ships .

^^^^

Imperial Interstellar Scout Service

The Imperial Interstellar Scout Service (IISS) is the exploratory arm of the Imperium.

It has its origins in the initial explorations of the Imperium's frontiers. Long ago, however, the Scout Service expanded its responsibilities to cover more than mere exploration. It now maps the territory it once explored, and it is responsible for providing navigational charts and maps to the ships that now travel through that territory. In addition, the Scout Service provides long distance courier or postal services between points within the empire.

@@@@IISS.jpg

^^^^

Ilraiki

Intelligent minor race native to Gasha ( Arar / Massilia 1508). The race is being studied by the Yamashi Research Institute . The Institute colonised Gasha in 453 to study the Ilraiki race and its evolutionary adaptation to this planet as it grew colder. The climatic change was caused by an increase in its orbital diameter due to the near passage of another star.

^^^^

Imperial Marines

Imperial Marine SunburstMembers of the armed fighting forces normally assigned to squadrons or fleets to give them a military reaction capability. Originally formed as an adjunct to naval forces, marines have developed into a full-fledged military force in their own right. Within the Imperium, this force is known as the Imperial Marines.

The Imperial Marines provide a hard-hitting, rapidly deployable strike force for offensive and defensive military operations. They deal with piracy and boarding actions in space, defend the starports and bases belonging to the Imperial Navy, and supplement other ground forces such as the local or Imperial Army.

In many places along the frontier, the Imperial Marines also serve as an interstellar police force, keeping the peace and enforcing the Imperial Rules of War. This last function has led to them being known by mercenaries as "the cops".

^^^^

Imperial Ministry of Justice

The Imperial Ministry of Justice (MoJ) is an intelligence agency primarily concerned with Imperial society. It has contacts with the court systems of all worlds of the Imperium, and it has an intelligence network which concentrates on criminal activity.

^^^^

Imperial Naval Intelligence

One of the Imperium's most powerful intelligence agencies, Imperial Naval Intelligence (INI) can draw on the entire assets of the Imperial Navy, and is primarily concerned with military intelligence. It tracks starship and troop operations, and can mount intelligence-gathering activities into all parts of the Imperium.

^^^^

Imperial Reservation

A location, usually very large, restricted to use by members of the Imperial family or those authorised by a member of the Imperial family.

^^^^

Imperial Starport Authority

The Imperial Starport Authority (SPA) is the organization responsible for all port operations (ground and orbital), and maintains the security of the extrality line surrounding every Imperial port. The only exceptions are class E and X starports, which have no SPA facilities at all.

The bureaucracy of the early Third Imperium realized that it would have to take on the responsibility of maintaining the quality of commercial ports. The Bases Division of the IISS) created the Civilian Starports Office to establish standards for taking over existing ports, formalize procedures for building new ones, and prioritize new construction and upgrade needs.

In 422, after the completion of the First Survey, a decree of Emperor Martin III separated this office from the Scouts and established it as the Imperial Starport Authority. It is part of the Imperial Ministry of Commerce, though its chief executive answers directly to the Emperor.

The Starport Authority emblem can be found on all official SPA stationery, buildings, vehicles, and uniforms. The emblem consists of a large terrestrial world on which is placed the cartographic symbol for a starport: a device resembling crosshairs made up of a circle and a pair of crossed lines. Encircling the planet is a stylized starship with a thruster trail to indicate that it is launching. The emblem has been in continuous use since the SPA was founded.

^^^^

Imperial Stationery

The Imperial Family has reserved (both by custom and by law) a distinctive design for its personal stationery. Well-known throughout the Imperium through its use for routine messages and for Imperial appointments, this writing material is cream-coloured artificial vellum, embossed with the Imperial Sunburst in gold.

Because it is used for Imperial appointments (even when issued in blank for offices in the Marches) all Imperial officials are familiar with the design and can readily tell normal physical forgeries from the real thing.

Electronic versions of the stationery also exist. These are data-encrypted with a special code lock and require a special hardware key to be unlocked. Some are even matched to the recipient's DNA, coded in when the stationery was used, thus making even electronic forgeries difficult.

^^^^

Imperial Sylean University

The traditional school for the Imperial family and most high noble families nearer Core sector. The university is one of the most prestigious in the Imperium.

^^^^

Instellarms
LIC

Imperial megacorporation.

Instellarms is a specialty supplier of all sizes and types of mercenary units. It manufactures, buys, and sells military equipment. Agents of the firm can often be found on a battlefield, negotiating the purchase of the equipment of the losing side before the battle is completely over. The company does not deal in interstellar vessels, or in chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons.

Instellarms was founded in 626, shortly after the end of the Civil War, by Axel Murdoch, a retired mercenary colonel. Taking advantage of inside contacts in the Imperial military, Murdoch was able to obtain large quantities of surplus military equipment at very low prices - but which still cost billions of credits. Where he got his financing is unknown.

Murdoch's connections with various mercenary unit commanders, coupled with a willingness to ignore the Imperial Rules of War and other regulations on mercenary warfare (when the profits were large enough), gave Instellarms a decisive edge over its competition. Instellarms grew to dominate the mercenary arms trade in the Imperium's coreward sectors within 90 years, and in the whole Imperium within two centuries.

Interests: Military hardware, military units, strategic planning.

Stock Ownership: Murdoch Holdings LIC , 32%; Hortalez et Cie, 30%; Sternmetal Horizons LIC , 8%; Ling Standard Products, 6%; Ichiban Interstellar LIC , 5%; GSbAG, 5%; Noble families, 8%; Other, 6%.

^^^^

Interface Lines

Where one territory ends and another begins, the special interface line meets the needs of the marketplace. Interface lines provide passenger and freight service across the border. They carefully maintain favor with both sides of the border, and sell as part of their product easy transit over the line.

The Vargr Extents are full of interface lines serving the many distinct Vargr territories. Interface lines operate along the Imperial border with the Aslan, they serve the interface with the K'kree, they even serve along the borders with the Solomani and the Zhodani.

Interface lines may serve routes either long or short. Some merely reach from a major world on one side of the border to a similar major world on the other side. Others (trading with the K'kree, for example) may operate a trade route as long as 75 or 100 parsecs in order to transport goods from one territory to another.

Examples of interface lines include Oberlindes Lines and Tyeyo Fteahrao Yolr.

^^^^

Ironite

A plaster with many metal-like properties, ironite is a naturally-occurring product mined within the Imperium. One example of use is in the cast ironite houses of Trokusian ( Apge / Core 0505).

^^^^

Ishimaga Genealogical Society

Rather than a society dedicated to researching geneology, the Ishimaga Genealogical Society (IGS) is dedicated to retaining Vilani racial purity. Members of this group are proud of the high percentage of Vilani blood flowing through their veins. Potential members are carefully screened, both genealogically and biologically, to ensure that they qualify by their racial purity.

The IGS was formed sometime during the Long Night , but its early history is not too well known. Offices of the IGS can be found throughout the Imperium, with headquarters at Ishimaga in the Lishun sector.

^^^^

Iystyos

An inexpensive intoxicant popular with Aslan spaceship crews. The grain from which it is brewed is native to Kusyu ( Kilrai' / Dark Nebula 1919) and has been exported to almost every Aslan world where it could be grown. The brew often causes hallucinations in humans who are unwary enough to try it.

^^^^

Kaenguerradz

Vargr term meaning "racial superiority". Most Vargr believe that their special origin makes them more important than other races. There are two versions of this philosophy.

High kaenguerradz reasons that the Ancients had specimens of all intelligent races of the time, and would have been foolish not to produce one that was better than any other.

Low kaenguerradz propounds that the Vargr were the original sapient race on Terra ( Sol / Solomani Rim 1827. Humans were genetically manipulated to produce intelligence. To keep the pre-existing Vargr from interfering in the experiments on the humans, the Ancients exterminated the Vargr on Terra after transferring a small breeding stock to Lair ( Grnrouf / Province 2408).

^^^^

Khu Su'ikh

Aslan sector-wide corporation , with a territory covering the Iiyoihuakh ( Riftspan Reaches ) sector.

Khu Su'ikh maintains a benevolent monopoly on rift passage service. Its fleet includes large cargo carriers capable of for the rift crossing, and it also provides navigational information for other ships crossing the rift. This even-handed treatment makes rift crossings relatively safe. The company makes its profit from repair and re-supply services on worlds within the Great Rift.

Soon after the jump-5 route was discovered in -1044, the Wahtoi clan staked a claim to many worlds in the sector. This led to the establishment of a trading company tied to the Wahtoi clan, which soon developed a monopoly on trade across the Great Rift. In about -750, however, the Aroaye'i clan established itself as the dominant clan on Aulryakh ( ????? / Riftspan Reaches 0507). This world is the route terminus in the Aslan trans-rift colonies. After several years of clan warfare, the Aroaye'i forced the Wahtoi clan to accept them in a partnership on the trade routes across the Rift. Over the years, the participation of Aroaye'i clan females has increased to the point that the two clans are now equal partners in ownership of Khu Su'ikh. The home port of the company is Wahtoikoeakh ( ????? / Riftspan Reaches 2936), the original home of the Wahtoi clan.

Khu Su'ikh means Five Shields in Trokh, and refers to the five major worlds along the route across the Great Rift.

^^^^

Kankurur-class G-Carrier
 
The Kankurur-class G-Carrier, manufactured by Ling Standard Products, is heavily used by the Scouts and Navy. Designed in 1095, the first model was commissioned in 1097. Individual models are named after significant life-forms on Imperial worlds. The kankurur itself is a large bird of prey native to Vland ( Vland / Vland 1717).

The vehicle is primarily used for survey and reconnaissance missions. Built with TL 15 construction throughout, it mounts a full array of sensors and a planetary-range meson communicator . The fusion power plant is fed by a fuel supply of 22,000 litres; this provides an operational duration of 20 full days, which equates to 60 days of 8-hour shifts. The ultra-heavy grav modules provide 99 tons of thrust, giving the G-Carrier a top speed of 240kph, with a cruising speed of 180kph and an NOE speed of 190kph.

The vehicle's sealed environment can be pressurised to provide full life-support for the crew. An aft airlock opens to the roof as well as the rear. A galley, four fold-up bunks, and a fresher allow extended missions.

EMS active and passive sensors, a neutrino sensor , and a densitometer give a full range of information to the surveyors on board. The planetary-range meson communicator allows near-instantaneous contact with any other station within planetary range. Fully loaded, the G-Carrier can carry the pilot, 5 passengers, and 27kl of cargo. It weighs 55 tons empty, and 88 tons loaded, costing MCr10.631.

^^^^

Knouksarrgh Ong

Vargr sector-wide corporation based in Provence sector.

Created and manufactures the Utovogh . Electronic goods from Naasirka and entertainment goods from Makhidkarun have cut sharply into market share.

^^^^

Lagrange Points
Trojan Points

Lagrange Points (image from 'Basics of Space Flight - Chapter 5. Planetary Orbits', courtesy NASA/JPL-Caltech)In a gravitational system composed of a small body orbiting a much larger one (such as a planet and star or a moon and planet), there are five special points in the vicinity of two orbiting masses where a third, smaller mass can orbit at a fixed distance from the larger masses. More precisely, the Lagrange Points mark positions where the gravitational pull of the two large masses precisely equals the centripetal force required to rotate with them.

Of the five Lagrange points, three are unstable and two are stable. The unstable Lagrange points - labeled L1, L2 and L3 - lie along the line connecting the two large masses. The stable Lagrange points - labeled L4 and L5 - form the apex of two equilateral triangles that have the large masses at their vertices. This means that the two stable points lie in the small bodys orbit 60 degrees ahead and behind it, and thus equidistant from the small and large bodies. These are called Trojan points.

The Trojan points of a gas giant near an asteroid belt commonly collect a cluster of asteroids. The name comes from the first such cluster discovered by Terrans at Jupiter in the Sol system: the asteroids were named after mythical heros of the fabled Trojan War on old Earth.

^^^^

Tree Kraken

Tree Kraken, also known as the land squid, the tree kraken (Hexapoda stren II, H. si/vans) is a 6 kg pouncer native to the planet Forboldn ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1808), but for various reasons has become distributed to many small, low gravity worlds in the Regina (Spinward Marches) and neighbouring subsectors of the Spinward Marches. (Also see the Forboldn Project).

The adult tree kraken resembles in general body form the Terran octopus (q.v.), having a central body sensory cluster and six radiating tentacle-like arms. The internal skeleton is rudimentary, consisting of a cartilaginous stiffening of the body to permit the lung sacs to function, to serve as attachment points for the muscles, and to permit leverage for the three part mandible located at the base of the arms. This stiffening appears to be an adaption to a terrestrial lifestyle.

The arms of the kraken consist of a stiffened central support structure surrounded by a muscular sheath. The arms end in from 2 to 7 (depending on species) smaller appendages. The ventral surface of the arm, and the ends of these smaller appendages are equipped with a disk-shaped sucker-like organ covered with hundreds of small, razor-sharp tooth-like structures.

The eyes are paired, operate stereoscopically, and permit the kraken to detect the faintest movement at several hundred meters. Range judgement is extremely good.

Respiration is accomplished by 3 to 8 (varying with species) lung-sacs located in the body mass. Each sac has its own connection to the atmosphere. To function, the inner lining of each sac must be kept moist, requiring the kraken to remain in regions of high humidity, such as marshes, swamps, or jungles. Tree krakens have a closed circularory system and are endothermic.

The kraken attacks its prey by leaping upon it from a height, usually a tree, but often a cliff and occasionally a roof. The arms wrap around the prey, immobilizing it and the disk-shaped structures abrade the skin and other tissue into small fragments which are then conveyed to the mouth.

After feeding, the tree kraken climbs to a high place for protection from other predators, and goes into a digestive torpor, from which it emerges several hours later.

Krakens are hermaphroditic, and reproduction is accomplished by budding. During the six week mating season, two krakens will meet, and exchange genetic material by means of two tubelike structures located above the eyes. After fertilization, these structures swell to several times their normal size and grow arms, eventually (after eight to twelve weeks) becoming fully developed miniature krakens. When fully developed, the young detach themselves and go their own way. This is accomplished when the parent is in a state of torpor after feeding, otherwise the krakens would eat their own young.

Worlds with known tree kraken populations include Forboldn, Menorb ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1803), Kinorb ( Regina / Spinward Marches 2202), Jesedipere ( Aramis / Spinward Marches 3001), Aramanx ( Aramis / Spinward Marches 3005), Extolay ( Lanth / Spinward Marches 1711), and Dinomn ( Lanth / Spinward Marches 1912). It is rumoured that the tree kraken's liver contains compounds useful in the manufacture of anagathics.

@@@@treekraken.jpg

^^^^

Lasers

Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation. Devices which emit concentrated light energy in beams or pulses. Lasers can be tools or weapons.

As tools, lasers can be used in such diverse tasks as surgical operations or welding.

As weapons, lasers can range from hand-held to ship-mounted weapons. They are perhaps the most versatile weapons yet developed.

Ship-mounted lasers cause damage to the exterior surfaces of enemy targets. Pulse lasers fire short bursts of high energy at targets, and are more effective at inflicting damage than are beam lasers. Beam lasers fire continuous beams of energy at targets, and are more effective at hitting than are pulse lasers.

^^^^

Professor Chanis Laskan 

Professor of History at the Regina Centre for Research , Regina ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1910).

Professor Laskan (born 237-1058) was educated at the University of Regina , obtaining degrees in Linguistics and Vilani History. He acquired a nervous disorder during field work on Andory ( Five Sisters / Spinward Marches 0206), which has confined him to a wheelchair.

Author of Discourses on Comparative Linguisto-Archeologocal Discoveries (1096), The First Imperium: Expansion and Consolidation (1100), and The First Imperium: The Long Peace (1105). Professor Laskan is reputed to be working on a history of the decline of the First Imperium.

^^^^

Levanex

A high-tech fabric available at tech level 12. This light, tough fabric is virtually impossible to rip. It also acts as a good vapour barrier from the outside in, but ventilates well from the inside out. This provides an excellent barrier to outside moisture. Levanex also resists lightly corrosive environments quite well.

A special stretch variation of the fabric is also available, called "levanex-R".

^^^^

Leviathan-class Merchant Cruiser

Designed jointly by Bilstein Yards of Glisten ( Glisten / Spinward Marches 0406) and Baraccai Technum, the Leviathan-class was developed from previous designs and primarily intended for independent cruising in undeveloped trade areas. High survivability is a prime design factor in this merchant cruiser .

The vessel is semi-streamlined, allowing skimming refuelling manoeuvres as well as landings in types 0 and 1 atmospheres. Atmospheric landings are otherwise impossible, hence the large complement of ship's boats.

Bilstein has made the design available for general sale, and fifteen have been completed (of which three have been lost), four are being built, and two are on order.

^^^^

Ling-Standard Products
Imperial megacorporation.

Ling-Standard Products (LSP) currently engages in a wide spectrum of activities including (but by no means limited to) manufacture of electronic equipment of all sorts, ground and air vehicles, starships and starship armaments systems, drive systems, power systems , computer systems and software, small arms, and a variety of other items.

Concerned to a small degree with banking, insurance, and other activities, LSP maintains mining and manufacturing facilities throughout the Imperium and beyond.

LSP began as a mining and mineral exploitation firm (and is still very active in that area). Later it expanded into manufacturing to create markets for its raw materials. It now transports raw materials and finished goods within the Imperium and approximately 50 parsecs beyond the Imperial borders.

Interests: Mining, electronics, vehicles, weapons, consumer goods.

Stock ownership: Imperial family, 8%; Hortalez et Cie, 26%; GSbAG, 23%; Murdoch Holdings LIC , 8%; Noble families, 8%; Other, 27%.

^^^^

Arian Lisiani

Captain Arian Lisiani began her career in the Imperial Navy in 220, joining the Flight Branch as a graduate of the prestigious Imperial School on Sylea ( Core / Core 2118). Her early career achievements were mixed. After distinguishing herself in the discovery and assimilation of some border states of Ilelish sector, she was cashiered for insubordination during hostilities with the Aslan. Lisiani was reinstated after intervention by Admiral Voseyevski, a classmate at the Imperial School.

Lisiani distinguished herself in exploits during the Aslan Border Wars. As a Captain temporarily commanding a pursuit squadron, she directed forces in the relief of Warinir ( Edge / Daibei 0517) after it was occupied by an Aslan expedition. The relief was successful, and the Aslan were driven from the system. Lisiani personally commanded the cruiser which diverted the main Aslan fleet away from Warinir ; with her ship severely damaged, she managed to close on the Aslan command ship and destroy it before she was herself destroyed.

Arian Lisiani was awarded the Starburst for Extreme Heroism posthumously. There has been a ship in the Imperial Navy named for her continuously since 345. The current vessel is a 5000-ton P. F. Sloan-class Fleet Escort, built in 1037 at Mora ( Mora / Spinward Marches 3124).

^^^^

Lowalaa

Stylised Lowalaa, Family symbol of Duchess MargaretA bird traditionally symbolizing trust, caring, and loyalty. The Lowalaa has earned this reputation for its many positive characteristics. They are common pets, especially among the nobility, in the regions of the Imperium stretching from Delphi to the thumb of the Great Rift.

The Lowalaa (Lowalaa Columbaformis Curatis) is native to Ituxi ( Aklan / Delphi 0722). It was transported to Anaxias ( Anaxias / Delphi 1724) during the First Imperium to control the local equivalent of insects. Its ability to adapt to the new environment was underestimated, however, and the population rapidly exceeded that of its homeworld. It is now the most common aviform on Anaxias , where it is popularly known as the Flying Grace.

The most remarkable characteristic of the Lowalaa is its colourful plumage, for which the Lasias Lowalaa is particularly noted. Each bird displays different colours and patterns; a record of the food sources it was exposed to. In the wild, birds with certain markings will be looked to as guides to certain nutritional needs of the flock. In captivity, their diet is managed with extreme care to create the desired effects. Special additives have even made such things as silver or luminous birds.

The other ability, most notable in the Thrumet Lowalaa, is mimicry. Lowalaas do not have the same vocal fidelity as some Terran birds, but they can learn short tunes. This talent extends to learning somatic patterns - in effect, dancing. Using bird puppets as training aids, entertainment troops have devised some very impressive acts with Lowalaas.

Their intelligence and trainability are chiefly credited for the Lowalaa's popularity, both as pets and working birds. On low tech worlds, they are often used as very dependable messengers and spotters.

The Lowalaa is highly adaptable. It can adjust to environmental extremes very well, but not to solitude. Its health will soon fail if a Lowalaa is frequently left alone. For this reason, they are often kept in mated pairs. Lowalaas mate for life and readily breed in captivity. Females will lay a clutch of two to five eggs every two to twelve months in the wild, varying with the world. Breeders, however, can hasten the mating cycle or halt it indefinitely. The life expectancy of a Lowalaa is 12 to 15 years.

Lowalaas are very flexible in the construction of nests, even having been known to use electrical wire and mylar tape to good effect. Once the eggs are laid, both the male and female become very defensive of their nest, with other Lowalaas joining in. It is rare for even the owner to be permitted to touch the eggs.

The bird was adopted as the family symbol of Prince Asan , brother of Emperor Paulo III . After Paulo had ascended the throne in 1031, Asan was awarded a duchy in Delphi sector. Asan moved to Delphi and later married Marian , the daughter of Delphi 's senior duke. This established his family line as the senior one in the sector.

The current holder of the duchy is Duchess Margaret of Anaxias ( Anaxias / Delphi 1724).

^^^^

McClellan Factors

An interface line which operates in the rimward area of the Spinward Marches, connecting the Marches with the nearest worlds of the Outrim Void.

McClellan Factors have cornered the market in District 268 after a long and bitter fight with Baraccai Technum.

The main regional base of the company is Mertactor ( District 268 / Spinward Marches 1537), with advance facilities at Trexalon ( District 268 / Spinward Marches 1339). In the Egryn subsector, facilities are maintained on Walei ( Egryn / Trojan Reach 0902), Kaldamar ( Egryn / Trojan Reach 1201), Nabeth ( Egryn / Trojan Reach 1202), Ashley's Rock ( Egryn / Trojan Reach 1601), and T'yana ( Egryn / Trojan Reach 1602).

On T'yana ( Egryn / Trojan Reach 1602), tensions between McClellan Factors and Baraccai Technum are running high. McClellan Factors views any extension of BT influence into Egryn as a serious threat.

^^^^

MagnetoDynamics, Inc

Established in 1040 with an Imperial charter and a mineral exploitation grant for Fulacin ( Rhylanor / Spinward Marches 2613). The corporation holds several patents for the recovery of precious and heavy metals from atmospheric and oceanic suspension, and originally obtained its position on Fulacin for the use of these properties.

Following the severe economic downturn associated with the False War (1082 to 1084), the company encountered a cash slowdown, and suspended operations for a period. In 1089, an influx of capital allowed the company to resume operations. In partial support of this new era, the company also established a large starport facility (currently class A minus ) with construction and overhaul facilities to 10,000 tons. The starport was completed in 1099.

MagnetoDynamics' exploration grant expires in 1199, with a renewability clause for an additional 100 years upon demonstration of efficient and profitable operations.

Stock Ownership: Spinward nobility, 8%; Imperial Family, 2%; large corporations, 34%; investment trusts, 46%; public (individuals), 8%.

^^^^

Makhidkarun


Makhidkarun specializes in the entertainment and communications industries. It produces fine musical recordings of all types, two- and three-dimensional movies, books, magazines, and art reproductions.

The Communication Division produces a wide variety of data processing, storage, and retrieval equipment, plus the requisite software for it.

The Gourmet Foods Division trades in all manner of rare and expensive foods, wines, and delicacies.

The Arean Transport subsidiary operates luxury liners which set the standard for fine cuisine and cruises throughout the Imperium. Makhidkarun also provides passenger and freight services throughout the Imperium, although operations are confined to established trade routes.

The Robotics Division has established Makhidkarun as the most innovative robotics manufacturer in the Imperium. Its research staff is responsible for many of the Imperium's significant breakthroughs in synaptic processing. In 298, Makhidkarun introduced the first line of tech level 13 robot brains. It revolutionized the popularity of robots in the Third Imperium by making robots usable by every citizen. In 711, it created the first prototype tech level 14 robot brain.

The origins of the company are shrouded in the mists of the Long Night . All that can be stated with certainty is that its foundation pre-dates the Third Imperium. The name, at least, belonged to a Vilani bureau that operated in the First Imperium.

Interests: Communications, computers, entertainment, recreation, robotics.

Home Port: Vland ( Vland / Vland 1717).

Territory: The entire Imperium, and the sectors on the coreward border, including Provence , The Windhorn , Meshan , Mendan , and Amdukan .

Stock ownership: Imperial family, 5%; Hortalez et Cie, 28%; noble families, 28%; investment trusts, 25%; private ownership, 14%.

^^^^

Maneuver Drive

Ships move through ordinary space using maneuver drives. Power for the drives is provided by the ship's power plant . Tech level requirements for maneuver drives are imposed to cover the grav plates integral to most ship decks, and which allow high-G maneuvers while interior G-fields remain normal.

Maneuver drives can be made up either of grav modules or thruster plates, which both make use of the graviton.

Gravitic drives produce a field which alters the way incoming gravitons react with the ship, allowing them to be used for thrust.

Thrusters are more advanced. A combined spin-off of gravitic and damper technology, thruster technology uses a strong molecular repelling force, reacting with both the strong and weak nuclear forces, to create a reactionless drive. Thrusters do not require the presence of a large gravity field to operate efficiently, thus are usable even outside of a gravity well. They are highly localized with virtually none of the projection ability of anti-grav.

Thruster plates are usually mounted in the aft of a ship, as they tend to build up a slight ionisation field around them. This is generally bled off into space.

^^^^

Menderes Corporation

A bi-racial, non-Imperial megacorporation.

The Menderes Corporation is involved in freight and cargo transportation, courier services, starship construction, military hardware, heavy manufacturing, electronics, and resources investments. Based in the Julian Protectorate , their merchants range from Vargr Extents and Antares sector to the Windhorn Rift .

The company emphasises its mercantile nature, downplaying its social policies as mere attempts to foster a more lucrative commercial environment. For instance, for centuries it has promoted and sponsored kuspar, floater and sailball - today the most popular sports in the Julian Protectorate . Importantly, these sports all make use of mixed Vargr-human teams, deliberately being designed to highlight the two races' complementary abilities and skills.

This reflects the way Menderes functions. Vargr tend to occupy certain positions within the company, humans others. The organisation has tailored itself to take the most advantage of the strengths of both species.

The company was formed about the time of the Nth Interstellar War (-2235 to -2219) when a family of Solomani traders, the Menderes, established lucrative trade routes along the Mendan Main . Later, many Solomani entrepreneurs in the area were appointed planetary governors when Emperor Hiroshi II came to power. A few such posts went to the Menderes family, among them that of Asimikigir ( Julian / Amdukan 0223). The family established a commercial dynasty spanning all of Asimikigir that endured the entire Long Night , and effectively became a monopoly. This objective was maintained when it broke into space again in -247, spreading into former Imperial space. However, the rise of the Sylean corporations was an unwelcome intrusion into the Menderes economic sphere. The Pacification Campaigns (76 to 120) were paralled by trade wars that ultimately forced the Menderes Corporation out of Lishun , Antares , and The Empty Quarter .

The Julian War (175 to 191) was the final Imperial push into the Mendan sector, occupied by the Asimikigir Confederation . Julian Menderes , the then head of the Menderes Corporation and Confederation regent, rallied both the humans and Vargr into a protectorate against the Imperium. Combining Vargr resourcfulness and human determination, the protectorate's forces, called the Star Legion , repulsed the Imperial fleets from the region by 185. They continued to press into the Imperium to force a formal treaty, finally given in 191. With victory achieved, the Julian Protectorate transformed itself into a permanent organisation. Ever since, the Menderes Corporation has jealously guarded its remaining markets and routes among the Vargr Extents.

Interests: Transport, ship components, military hardware, heavy equipment.

Home Port: Asimikigir ( Julian / Amdukan 0223).

^^^^

Merchant Cruisers

A generic term applied to vessels specifically assigned to independent missions, the prime objective of which is market discovery and acquisition, either in isolation or in competition with other merchant operators. Design parameters for such vessels usually include a high level of weaponry and auxiliary boats in proportion to their cargo capacity and all possible back-up systems, along with high structural integrity.

One example of a merchant cruiser is the Leviathan-class.

^^^^

Misjump

An unpredictable random jump, caused by a faulty jump transition. The worst effect of a misjump is total destruction of the craft at the time of jump transition. Other misjumps are classified according to their effects: temporal, spatial, or combined.

In a temporal misjump, the craft reaches the intended destination, but a jump time duration error occurs (also known as a jump relativity error). In such cases, the amount of time the craft spends in jumpspace may vary from 40% to 160% of normal. In many cases, this is nothing more than an inconvenience to the passengers and crew. In fact, the craft may arrive ahead of schedule. However, in extreme cases, the voyage may take so long that supplies dwindle and life support or fuel reserves fail. When this happens, the ship emerges from jumpspace with no survivors.

A spatial misjump causes the craft to arrive at a point in space other than its intended destination, although the time spent in jump falls within the normal range. This is caused by the ship entering a higher level of jumpspace than intended. Sometimes a jump-6 will be reduced to a mere jump-1, or a jump-1 converted into a jump-10, 20, or higher. The highest recorded misjumps have covered 36 parsecs. Often these misjumps are disastrous, because there is no assurance that the craft will emerge anywhere near a star system. A ship which finds itself stranded between systems, without fuel, is almost certainly doomed. About the only recourse is for the ship to vector toward the nearest star and accelerate to the limit of its maneuver fuel. At 0.1 lightspeed, a system one parsec away will still take over 30 years to reach. The only hope for the occupants is to strap themselves into low berths for the duration of the trip.

A combined misjump is a dramatic event which causes the travellers to be subjected to combined effects of both a temporal and a spatial misjump.

There are two common causes of misjumps. The chief cause is gravitational perturbations. It is possible to enter jumpspace from anywhere, even from the surface of a planet, but some points are more hazardous than others. Any nearby mass (even another starship) distorts the fabric of space and jumpspace, making jumpspace transition a dangerous task. Between 10 and 100 diameters, the effect gradually drops off; jumps within this range are considered hazardous and should be avoided. Beyond 100 diameters, jumpspace transition is considered safe, as long as no other factor adversely affects the procedure.

The second most common cause is contaminated fuel. On rare occasions, an unusual gas mix in the fuel causes the jump drive power plant to load the zuchai crystals with a charge that is ever-so-slightly skewed, and a misjump occurs. The detection systems in Scout and military jump drive governors are more sensitive to such variations in the zuchai crystal charge. This enables them to compensate for such variations, making them more resistant to misjumps caused by unrefined fuel.

Other misjumps are caused by faulty drive components, such as a fracture in a zuchai crystal or damage to the lanthanum hull grid.

^^^^

Missiles

Missiles are projectiles designed to impact with or detonate near a target in order to inflict damage on it. Many types of missiles are available to the armed forces of the Imperium and its neighbours.

Missiles are made up of three major sub-systems: the launcher, the delivery sub-system, and the warhead.

The launcher is usually little more than a protective rack which holds the missile until launch.

Once fired, the delivery sub-system takes over, steering the missile towards the target. The sub-system is made up of motor, guidance controls, and detonation controls. The motor can be liquid or solid fuel thrusters or a gravitic drive. The guidance can be by operator, radar, or homing (by infrared seeking, mass seeking, neutrino seeking, etc). Detonation is controlled by a trigger: contact, proximity, intelligent, or command.

The warhead falls into two broad catagories: conventional and nuclear. Conventional covers standard high-explosive (HE) and focussed force high-explosive; these can only cause surface damage. Nuclear covers fission, fusion, and enhanced radiation; these missiles cause both surface damage and radiation effects. Note that under the Imperial Rules of War, nuclear missiles are reserved for use by Imperial forces only.

Standard missiles designed for space combat come in two sizes: the larger are designed to be launched from missile bays, and the smaller from missile racks. The latter weigh about 50 kg and cost Cr50,000 each.

Such anti-ship missiles may also be converted to planetary surface bombs, or to surveillance drones (mechanical and electrical skill would apply in such cases).

^^^^

Monadium

Impenetrable bluish-gray metal used as the basic construction material by the Ancients at the site on Antiquity ( Ian / Corridor 0816). It has defeated all efforts to determine its exact composition; some experts believe it contains titanium. Even modern TL 15 plasma and fusion weapons have been unable to penetrate it.

^^^^

Monitor

Large spaceship with armament equivalent to a battleship, used primarily for system defence roles. Generally based on a planetoid hull (and so automatically unstreamlined), these craft depend heavily on pre-positioned caches and fuel shuttles.

The large size of these craft make them generally impossible to move inter-system. Like battle riders, they are in a conquer-or-die situation if facing superior forces. Their deterrent value is therefore fragile as well as powerful.

^^^^

Mora

Capital of the Spinward Marches, and site of the first major Imperial establishment in that sector.

Mora ( Mora / Spinward Marches 3124) was settled in 60 and financed by Ling Standard Products. It was soon a thriving trade centre, building new ships, overhauling old ones, and producing other manufactured goods on the side. At one end of the trade routes through to the Sword Worlds Confederation and the Darrians, Mora became known as the "Gateway to the Marches".

Mora sits fairly near the centre of the Domain of Deneb , astride the Spinward Main. The bulk of the world's 10 billion population resides in a sprawling mega-city, straddling the equator and covering most of the major continent. The Duchess Delphine currently holds the reins of power in the world's matriarchy.

The Mora system's belt is home to most of the significant biotech industries in the Spinward Marches. The belt environment has provided tham with a safe and flexible environment for research while being positioned at a large nexus of trade routes.

Mora has two asteroidal moons of great age. Current theories hold that they are cometary remains.

^^^^

Neanimorphic

Term meaning "looking younger than one's years". Often includes the connotation that the subject has undergone rejuvination therapy or is using anagathics.

^^^^

Nuclear Damper
Damper Box

Nuclear dampers are passive defensive devices which create an interference field in which the strong nuclear force can be manipulated. A series of nodes and anti-nodes are created, either to enhance or degrade the strong nuclear force.

Focussing a negative node on incoming nuclear warheads lowers the potential barriers around nuclei, thus suppressing the strong force; the warheads shed neutrons at very low energies and are rendered harmless after a short exposure. Both fission and fusion warheads are affected, as fusion warheads use a fission trigger to create the heat required for the fusion reaction.

Dampers may also be used to eliminate radioactive contamination from an area. The damper is focussed on the contamination and forces the radioactive particles to shed radiation until they are inert.

Nuclear dampers may be mounted in spaceships or on vehicles. A damper unit consists of three components: two separate damper projectors and a fire control system. Shipboard dampers are generally mounted as far apart as possible, and contain an integral fire control system for efficiency.

A further development of the nuclear damper is the damper box. This focusses a positive node on its contents, raising the potential barrier and preventing nuclear decay. Damper boxes are used to store collapsing rounds, allowing materials with short usable half-lives to be used as ammunition.

^^^^

Oberlindes Lines

Logo of Oberlindes LinesOberlindes Lines is an interface line trading between the Imperium in the Spinward Marches and the Vargr in neighbouring Gvurrdon . It is a major shipping company in the Regina subsector ( Spinward Marches ).

The Oberlindes name is an old one in the trade and commerce business in the Marches. Roxanne Oberlindes established the first line to bear the name in 487, and built up a large family business from a free trader operation. The company thrived between each of the several wars which have wracked the Marches in the past half-millenium.

The first major increase in Oberlindes' size came in 1049 with the acquisition of the Emissary, a Azhanti High Lightning-class frontier cruiser declared surplus by the Imperial Navy. This ship, armaments intact, served as the flagship for Oberlindes' excusions into the Vargr Extents on trade expeditions; the venture proved highly successful. A base was established just beyond the Imperial border (some irregularities in the ship transfer made it impractical to bring the ship into the Imperium) and served as a clearing house for trade good shipments between Regina ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1910) and the Vargr worlds.

Following the Fourth Frontier War, the company obtained an Imperial charter (1084) and naval surplus transports. They used them to provide extensive cargo service in the Regina subsector, concentrating on the smaller feeder routes. This proved to be most lucrative, as worlds cut off by the fighting had a high demand for trade goods. At the same time, Oberlindes expanded into trade with the Vargr just beyond the Imperial border, and has become a major importer of Vargr products and goods.

More recently, the line has expanded into main line service, in direct competition with Tukera Lines and other established major shipping lines. Expansion into neighbouring subsectors has improved interstellar service for travellers, but has alienated many of the older and more conservative lines.

Marc hault-Oberlindes , patriarch and controller of the line, was awarded a baronial patent, complete with estates on Feri ( Regina / Spinward Marches 2005), by direction of the Emperor in 1101. The patent was in recognition of his contribution to economic recovery in the Marches following the Fourth Frontier War. His heir apparent is his son, Sergei hault-Oberlindes . Sergei was recently (1105) rescued from imprisonment on Ruie ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1809).

Home Port: Regina ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1910).

Territory: Regina and Aramis subsectors; Vargr territory in adjacent Gvurrdon sector.

Current Owner: Marc hault-Oberlindes . Stock Ownership: Oberlindes family, 78%; Imperial Family, 2%; corporate employees, 8%; investment trusts, 10%; public (individuals), 2%.

Current Fleet: the commercial fleet consists of more than 100 ships, which includes the Emissary (an  Azhanti High Lightning -class frontier cruiser), 9 other ships of greater than 4000 tons and 30 other ships of greater than 1000 tons.

^^^^

Off-dirt Rank

Mercenary jargon for the courtesy title "major", applied to non-naval captains when aboard starships, to avoid confusion with the starship captain.

^^^^

Omega Point

The ultimate state of the Universe. Cold freeze or contraction into a hot supermass?

^^^^

One Imperium Movement

Loose Imperium-wide society whose adherents believe that all peoples of both previous Imperiums should be united in one massive Imperium, including the Solomani Sphere and the coreward extents of the First Imperium.

The movement has a long history, dating from shortly before the verification of the Solomani Hypothesis.

^^^^

Oniochalasia

A term meaning "purchasing as a means of mental relaxation".

^^^^

Onnesium

Rare element, atomic number 118, mildly radioactive and dangerous, which has been proved to be a viable room-temperature superconductor.

Onnesium is normally found as small, silvery spheres embedded within meteoric nickel-iron. It is created within supernovae, plated onto asteroidal surfaces, and eventually can be discovered in free-floating asteroids or in impact craters on planetary surfaces.

Recent discoveries of onnesium in the Gavza system ( Scotian Deep / Reaver's Deep 1117) have suggested that a supernova at Scotian Deep ( Scotian Deep / Reaver's Deep 1118) may have spread onnesium deposits to several nearby systems in the Scotian Deep subsector.

^^^^

Orbital Complexes

Orbital complexes  are large artificial satellites, capable of sustaining life. They range in size from single stations up to large, sprawling cities. Complexes can be joined in a daisy-chain arrangement, or simply a group of closely proximate individual complexes in the same orbit. Three general size catagories exist: orbital stations, orbital settlements, and orbital cities.

An orbital station is a single large satellite used as an orbital installation, with a permanent population in the tens. Often built as a modular unit, able to be expanded upon as necessary. Some standard station types include refuelling station, communications station, research station, fighter base, peace monitor, civilian transfer station (for personnel and/or cargo), or drydock control centre. Possible at TL 7.

An orbital settlement is an open-cycle orbital station with a permanent population in the hundreds. Possible at TL 8.

The largest of the orbital complexes, an orbital city is a closed-cycle orbital station with a permanent population in the thousands. Possible at TL 9.

^^^^

Order of the Emperor's Guard

The most common Imperial order of knighthood, established by Cleon II in 52. Originally limited to the Emperor's personal retinue, the Order now has a wide and diverse membership.

^^^^

Ormine

Intelligent minor race native to a world in Akhlare subsector ( Dark Nebula ). The Ormine are a very long-lived race with some characteristics resembling Terran reptiles. Their metabolism is slow, with a minimal homeothermic response to keep them from actually freezing.

Ormine are upright, short-legged bipeds with a short, flat tail for balance. Their arms are also relatively short and the hands partly webbed. They are covered with jointed plates rather like the armour of a Terran armadillo. Their origin was obviously aquatic and they retain several adaptions that make them at home in the water, including gills which open and activate upon diving.

The lifespan of the Ormine is about 300 standard years, with maturity coming at 30 standard years. The elders of a community are its leaders, and serve for life once chosen. Understandably, Ormine culture is slow-moving and very conservative. On their own, they have never developed past TL 8.

The Solomani arrival 3,000 years ago was a severe cultural shock. Solomani spacers were impatient with the deliberate movements of the councils that negotiated with them, while the Ormine for the most part thought the Solomani rude, impetuous, and thoughtless.

Human technological superiority, however, was undeniable. This attracted some few younger Ormine minds. With every human visit, some Ormine took passage to new worlds. Colonies grew up on several suitable planets and some unsuitable ones. The technology to conquer the inhospitable worlds was supplied by the Solomani in exchange for work contracts and pledges of loyalty. This has meant that most of the Gerontocracy of Ormine is deeply in debt to the Solomani and is part of their political sphere.

The Ormine retain their rule by elders, but those elders usually have a human "advisor". Any who express their disapproval of this too strongly may find themselves exiled to one of the less pleasant worlds.

^^^^

Orpheides

Intelligent minor race native to Orphee ( New Islands / Reft 1429). Descended from herbivorous grazer stock, the Orpheides have only achieved rudimentary development (approximating TL 0). Despite this, their culture at that level has proven of interest to academics throughout the Island Clusters .

It is expected that the Orpheides, with suitable protection from interference, can achieve a technological civilisation within a few thousand years. To this end, Orphee itself has been interdicted (making it the equivalent of a Red Zone within the Imperium).

^^^^

Oynprith

The common language of the Droyne.

For centuries, only the vast distances separating Droyne worlds from each other concealed the fact that they all had a common language. That is not to say that every Droyne spoke the same language; indeed, different Droyne communities spoke different languages, often very different languages. However, all Droyne communities shared one common language - Oynprith, the language used in the coyn casting ceremony. Outsiders missed Oynprith simply because it was not used in public very often; it had a status as a ritual or ceremonial language, much like the status of Latin on Terra ( Sol / Solomani Rim 1827).

In interstellar commerce, Oynprith was soon discovered by Droyne to be a universal language among their race; as trade increased, Oynprith became more commonly used, finally reaching a status as the universal Droyne language.

^^^^

Pan-Galactic Friends of Life

A dedicated, positive-action group concerned with protecting endangered species and threatened ecologies. Once considered a lunatic fringe group, they have acquired a good deal of public respect and support.

^^^^

Particle Accelerator

Device for accelerating a particle of matter to speeds approaching the speed of light, creating a measurable increase in its mass. While some use gravitic acceleration mechanisms, most use powerful electrical and/or magnetic fields to accelerate ions or charged subatomic particles.

The particle accelerator has been made into a very effective weapon. The same fields that accelerate the particles are used to focus them into concentrated beams, able to attack distant targets. Hits from these particle accelerator weapons (PAWs) produce surface and radiation damage.

Charged particle accelerator weapons (C-PAWs) fire charged particles. These propagate well through atmosphere (behaving like an electrical current flowing in one direction), but scatter in vacuum (due to magnetic replusion).

Neutral particle accelerator weapons (N-PAWs) fire charged particles through a device (foil screen, gas filter, or high-power laser) which strips off an electron or adds a proton. The resultant beam is neutrally charged. These beams break up rapidly in atmosphere, but perform flawlessly in space.

Thus, N-PAWs are the space weapons, and C-PAWs are the ground weapons.

Research PAWs are generally curved, while military PAWs are generally straight. This allows military designs to be less complicated and more able to withstand battle damage.

^^^^

PDPT-beta

Chemical compound discovered by Seaharvester scientists in the corpse of a pre-reproductive phase daghadasi specimen in 1101. The full name of the compound, cis-1,2 paradichlorotriethylaminoprocyclohepatrenyl-4-tricyclo-hexene-beta, is rarely used.

The chemical serves as the basis for a family of experimental broad-spectrum antibiotics which can be selectively "tuned" to wipe out specific types of bacterial, viral, and cancerous growths, while leaving adjacent benign growths untouched. Thus far, no synthesis of the chemical has been produced, and no source other than the daghadasi oguls has been discovered.

^^^^

Pidgin

Pidgin is a language unique to a locale. It forms when children learning more than one language merge parts of them to form another. It is usually almost impossible for a non-native adult to learn the local pidgin.

^^^^

Battle of Porozlo (980)

The Zhodani thrust (in the Third Frontier War) via Vilis and Lanth subsectors to Rhylanor ( Rhylanor / Spinward Marches 2716) met a known problem - Rhylanor has no gas giant, but does have a strong naval base. Neighbouring Porozlo ( Rhylanor  / Spinward Marches 2715) had a gas giant for quick refuelling, and also possessed a naval base of potential use to invading naval forces.

The battle began when a single large Zhodani task force appeared off Porozlo's primary; it proceeded directly to the larger of the two gas giants in the system. The local naval base reacted immediately, even admirably, considering that there was no warning of Zhodani this far from the front lines. However, as the first Zhodani task force refuelled, portions of it engaged the local defences, occupying them as a second task force appeared and drove straight for Porozlo. The threat of action against the planetary defences & facilities prompted the world organisation to declare Porozlo an open world. Naval forces either surrendered or jumped to safety at Rhylanor .

The fall of Porozlo gave the Zhodani a supporting base for their seige of Rhylanor . Ships could easily refuel at the gas giant, jump-1 parsec to Rhylanor for raids, attacks, or blockade patrols, and still have enough fuel to jump back to Porozlo where a class A starport and the captured naval base stood ready to repair any damage immediately.

The naval defences of Porozlo have been strengthened considerably since 986.

^^^^

Postal Union

A group of political units associated to a greater or lesser degree for the purpose of communication among citizens, businesses, and governmental units.

Nearly all star systems are members of one postal union or another. Governments cooperate along their borders in order to allow the efficient flow of communications between them. Members of a postal union forward mail through their territories (subject, of course, to local security needs, acts of war, and so on) to the proper addresses.

On the average, communication is at the speed of the fastest available transportation, usually about three or four parsecs a week.

^^^^

Prison Hulk

The former Imperial battle cruiser Gaesh has been paid off and converted to penal rehabilitation at an orbital site above Pixie ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1903). Modern reform and rehabilitation methods are used on a variety of Imperial offenders in a setting removed from normal pressure and routine; the Ministry of Justice reports excellent results in its programs, with a recidivism rate approaching zero.

The orbiting prison is an interesting study in economy, converting an otherwise useless starship to an important social institution. The two upper decks have been retained for guard crew quarters and essential administration, while the three lower decks have been turned over to the inmates for quarters and recreation.

^^^^

Prt'

Intelligent minor race native to Prt'aow ( ????? / Spica ????), evolved from once-domesticated carnivore/pouncers. They are bipedal, but can move on all fours at greater speed. Averaging about 1 m in height and 25 to 30 kg in weight, their most distinguishing feature is a slight external resemblance to the Felidae (cats) of Terra ( Sol / Solomani Rim 1827), causing one observer to characterise them as "overgrown tomcats".

The main difference between the Prt' and their wild forebears are a greater overall body size, an enlarged cranium, and the development of the forepaw into a stubby-fingered hand, allowing the manufacture and use of tools. The greatest overall difference is, of course, their sapience.

The Prt' (pronounced "pert" with a rolled "r" and emphasis on the "t") were created by a race they call the Hasst'kor (lit. "those who came before"). Known only through legend, the Hasst'kor seem to have bio-engineered simple carnivore/pouncers for use as a servitor race. About -10,000 Imperial, the Hasst'kor were destroyed in an interplanetary war with their neighbours. The Prt' were left as the only intelligent life on the planet, their population drastically reduced by chemical assaults and the bio-plagues which eradicated their former masters. Taking to the wilds to avoid these hazards, the Prt' lived a brutish and primitive existence for millenia, slowly creating their own clan culture. Eventually, some clans ventured back into the ruins, and discovered some stockpiles of Hasst'kor technology. These "civilised" clans prospered, rising to TL 1 while the rest remained at TL 0.

About -2400 Imperial, a Hiver expedition discovered the planet. Contacting a few reckless clans, they decided to uplift the Prt' to a civilised level. Soon, the Prt' were accompanying the Hivers on scouting expeditions through the stars. To this day, despite somewhat violent ways, the Prt' remain very active on both Hiver exploration services.

Archaeological study of the Hasst'kor has revealed little. It is clear that the third and fourth planets were occupied by sentient races. Those of the third were the Hasst'kor, a race of roughly Solomani size and shape. More is not known; none of their likenesses have been found. Their technology was about TL 9, but without jump; however, their bio-tech was about TL 16. Of their mentality, the only demonstration is that of the fourth planet, stripped of life and pock-marked with craters. It is hypothesised that crude anti-matter ordnance was used to wipe out the race that lived there.

Prt' society is dominated by the clan system, similar to, but not as restrictive as Aslan clan hierarchy. Government is by a council of clan elders, who hold frequent meetings to decide policy for a population - a sporadic form of government. These elders also decide policy for their own clans, male elders making most of the decisions, with final approval coming from the females. Every Prt' of 60+ is automatically an elder; some are honoured with this status as young as 40 (usually for some great service). One small, specialised clan handles all the bureaucracy, including contact with off-worlders.

The planetary armed forces are also maintained by the clans, primarily being volunteer militia. Since the Hive Federation handles the defence of space, their primary function seems to be competition to determine which unit is the most impressive. These wargames also serve as the Prt' equivalent of organised sports.

One other event of interest is the Kha'i (rite of passage), a ritual combat that marks the entry of a male Prt' into adulthood. Held bi-annually between clans, adolescent males compete against one another to prove their strength and suitability as mates - a traditional function which still has influence on the females attending. Males not selected often leave their clans for a while to further prove their suitability by questing in unknown territory. This often translates into starfaring.

Prt'aow (lit. "Home") is a member of the Hive Federation, and Hiver influence is pervasive (for example, written Prt' uses Hiver idiographs). The Prt' can boast of their service to the Hiver Exploration Service . Their closest neighbours, the Solomani, retain friendly but patronising relations with them. On the whole, the Solomani are not favourites of the Prt', due to the Solomani view of them as large housecats. The Prt' are familiar with the Imperium, and many have gained Imperial citizenship through service with the IISS, a favourite career of questing Prt'.

Two entire clans have moved to the Aslan Hierate, serving as assistants to Aslan corporations and clans, usually as interpreters in human-Aslan meetings. The Aslan appreciate the Prt' ability to tolerate human insults and gaffes without becoming mortally insulted (they are still "touchy" from a human standpoint, however). Occasionally, Prt' have served as mediatiors between Aslan clans, being recognised as neutral parties.

^^^^

Pseudo-Reality Communication

Communication via a specially programmed pseudo-reality computer. The computer queries the sender of the message extensively, building up a large database about both the person and the message. It can then act as a stand-in for the sender when delivering the message. The recipient can discuss the message with a computer image of the sender, just as if they were physically present.

^^^^

Psionic Games

A continuing competition held by the Zhodani government for excellence in psionic achievement. They were first established in -6731 Imperial, the point at which the Zhodani dating system begins.

The Psionic Games are held on Zhdant ( Gavel / Zhdant 2719) once every olympiad, for a period of nearly four weeks. The participants (mostly Intendants) are selected by the various ruling councils, and preliminary competitions are held to reduce the numbers to manageable size. Intendants who do well in the Games are elevated to noble status (about 1 in 7 are elevated in this way).

The Zhodani system provides psionic training to all nobles and to the Intendant class. This means that the Psionic Games are a popular device for the masses to see the powers of their rulers in action. Competition is staged in nearly all fields of psionics, including telekinetic weight-lifting, distance and accuracy teleportation, and many other events.

^^^^

Psychohistory

The science of historical prediction and macro-social manipulation. The main thesis is that the actions of trillions of individuals take on a fluidity and predictability which can be compared to that of molecules in gas. The very size of the population being dealt with factors out individual peculiarities and allows the prediction of its behavior. With the ability to predict the reaction of a population to a particular stimulus, comes the ability to manipulate that population, psychohistorians reason.

Psychohistory began as a combination of public relations/advertising techniques and behavioral science. Although its techniques have been put on a more rigorous footing, the basic principles are still not well understood. A number of minor experiments have confirmed the general validity of the science, but it was also shown to be too expensive to be of any practical utility. Research continues at a small number of Imperial universities.

Restricted: The real reason large-scale psychohistory experiments no longer occur is due to the unpredictable results of the only sizable experiment to date, conducted as a part of the Psionics Suppressions. The unforeseen results of this were so far-reaching that Imperial scientists concluded that their knowledge of the principles involved was woefully inadequate, and that further study was required. Imperial research continues at a small number of strictly controlled research stations.

^^^^

Psionics Suppressions
800 to 826

The revelation of scandals (financial, ethical, and moral) within the psionics institutes in the years 772 to 798 resulted in a shift in public opinion against the institutes. Over a 26-year period, various institute charters were cancelled, leading figures jailed or otherwise repressed, and restrictive laws passed limiting or prohibiting the practice of psionics. Many institute figures went underground, to espouse their cause in a type of guerilla war.

Popular prejudice against psionics continues to the present day. The average citizen will admit to a general dislike of psionics, and if pressed, will usually state that psionics violates a person's right to mental privacy.

Historian Albert Croale raised an alternative theory for the Suppressions, which he called the "Crisis of '99".

Restricted: In the latter half of the 700's, high Imperial figures (the Office of the Emperor and the Intelligence Agency ) became convinced that the psionics institutes within the region spinward of Corridor sector (about 60% of all institutes ) were being financed, at least in part, by Zhodani money. Indeed, there is a natural affinity between the institutes and the Zhodani (with their long-standing history of psionics study and training). The Zhodani were believed to be laying the ground-work for a "fifth column" to operate in Imperial space during a war planned to break out between 810 and 820. The Imperium moved to combat this.

Evidence of scandal was uncovered (or fabricated) and released, with careful attention to public opinion. Simultaneously, high level officials at the sector and subsector levels were apprised of the true situation, and both the Zhodani and Vargr states were informed (through private channels) that the Imperium knew of the upcoming war and was prepared for it. War was averted, but the supressions succeeded far better than the Imperium had envisioned. Public opinion swung widely against psionics and became solidified in the form of strong local laws and customs. The suppression campaign continued for twenty-six years before its formal halt. Many small, local campaigns have occurred since. The strong anti-psionic feeling engendered in the public has even made it difficult for the Imperium to use psionics for its own, official purposes.

The cancellation of the charters of the various psionics institutes effectively removed them from the community. They have continued to exist only because psionics gives such an important advantage against law enforcement officials.

Sixty-five psionics institutes held Imperial charters in 800. The suppression orders issued by Paula II , appearing over a period of 10 years, first "suppressed" the various charters (rendering them temporarily suspended) and then revoked tham at a later date. 65 suppression orders were issued, numbers 2 through 66 (SO1 was a general order to the realm concerning the issue) followed by 65 orders for revokation (SO67 to SO131). Of these, actual records indicate that SO83 and SO96 were themselves revoked by orders published elsewhere. The result is that a cursory examination of the SO files will reveal all Imperial charters of psionics institutes have been revoked; in actuality, two institutes have retained their charters, now under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence .

One institute remains at its original site at Terra ( Sol / Solomani Rim 1827). The revocation order was cancelled in 1014.

One institute, originally sited at Regina ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1910), has been re-established at Wypoc ( Lanth / Spinward Marches 2011), while retaining a low-level recruiting establishment as part of the naval base at Regina.


^^^^

Pyramid

Traditional construction form for developing cultures; considered to be the simplest form of large-scale architecture because of its load-bearing strength and ease of assembly. Generally found at TL 1.

Pyramid structures of all sizes have been believed to serve a focusses for psionic (or cosmic) power, and are claimed to sharpen dull edges, cure diseases, and generally work miracles.

Pyramids have been constructed on most worlds where the local culture has passed through TL 1. Many examples remain due to the massive strength of the structure.

^^^^

Q-ship

A starship designed to lure corsairs by giving the appearance of a weak, poorly-armed merchant ship, but having sufficient combat power to defeat them.

These ships can be a valuable element in anti-pirate forces of many planetary and subsector governments throughout known space. Companies may also purchase Q-ships for use in areas where local governments either cannot or will not control piracy; they find the expense of Q-ships a bargain when a raider which has preyed upon a profitable trade route is finally hunted down.

Most Q-ships range from 200 to 800 tons, matching the range of common merchant ships and freighters. They are even built using the same hull designs, simply adding armour and weaponry. Typically, they mount the maximum number of turrets for the hull size. Any turrets over and above the usual number on a merchant ship are in the form of "pop" turrets. These are similar to the pop turrets found on xboat tenders .

The designs tend to trade cargo space for improved drives and a good computer. Since boarding actions are common, Q-ships normally carry a squad of marines or security personnel trained in such operations. Small craft carried by Q-ships are specially equipped for troop transport.

^^^^

Quantum
Quantum Mechanics

The indivisible unit in which waves of energy may be emitted or absorbed.

The concept originally arose from asking why a star emitted at all frequencies without generating an infinite amount of energy and exhausting itself. The integer quantum makes only certain frequencies possible: therefore, stars are not emitting at an infinite number of frequencies; therefore, stars do not emit an infinite amount of energy.

Quantum mechanics is the study of physics at the quantum level, rather than the gross level which sophonts naturally perceive.

^^^^

Quark

A (charged) elementary particle that feels the strong force. Protons and neutrons are each composed of three quarks.

^^^^

Radioactivity

Spontaneous breakdown of one type of atomic nucleus into another type.

^^^^

University of Regina

A broad spectrum planetary institution providing education in all areas; its campuses are scattered all over Regina ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1910). Its greatest strengths are in the social sciences: history, sociology, cultural anthropology, public policy, and political science.

By law, Regina is the only university in the sector allowed to call itself the "U of R". This is a relic dating from when feudal requirements gave Regina, as sector capital and seat of the sector Duke, pride of place. This law is still on the books. However, its students and faculty breezily scorn this distinction and refer to the university simply by the world's name: "Regina".

^^^^

Repatriation Bond

A repatriation bond is a document guaranteeing passage of an individual to a specified location upon completion of contract work or upon suspension of contract work for any reason. Repatriation bonds are guarantees given as inducements to workers who might otherwise be wary of leaving their own worlds with no assurances that they could return. They are most commonly used by mercenary units.

Repatriation bonds are usually administered by a large financial institution which holds the necessary funds in escrow.

A sample repatriation bond card would be similar to this: The bonding agent shown is Hortalez et Cie, one of the most reputable bonding agents. The possessor can expect that the card will be honoured without delay or problem. The card is sufficient to get the bearer to a place of safety, and then off the stated world (to one of the destination worlds) without additional expense. It need only be presented at the world's starport .

^^^^

Repulsors

Starship defensive system consisting of large, focussed negatively polarised artificial gravity projectors, used to deflect incoming missiles or other foreign objects.

^^^^

Imperial Research Station

The scattered worlds of the Imperium manifest a wide range of technological levels; this diversity is maintained by the distance between worlds, the high cost of transportation, and the relative independence allowed to worlds within the Imperium.

Nevertheless, the Imperium itself is constantly involved with research projects at the forefronts of technology. While some new technology can be purchased from advanced cultures beyond the Imperial boundaries, such high technology is expensive, and still requires a solid technological foundation to allow its usage. Consider: however useful solid-state chip circuits are, they still require a firm grounding in electronics, and cannot be used on a large scale without electronics, individual solid-state chip components, photo processing, and even crystal culture. It is vital that the Imperium pass through many stages of technological development on the way to achievement in higher tech level areas.

Imperial technological research is performed in two ways: under contract by corporations, or in established Imperial Research Stations. The difference is that corporate (and equivalent privately financed) research is directed at specific practical uses, while Imperial projects are breaking new ground on the forefronts of knowledge. Often this is an attempt to duplicate technology observed or reported in neighbouring cultures and not yet within the ability of Imperial science. At other times, the research is in an area of interest expressed by some Imperial body (such as spinal mount weapons research performed by the Imperial Navy).

Imperial Research Stations may be sited in areas which need the boost to the local economy, or in remote areas far from the potential disturbance of Imperial politics. Many different stations may be working in the same region, and many different areas of knowledge may be under investigation at one time.

In general, however, one station will be constructed for one purpose, and continue in that area of knowledge for its entire span of usefulness. Its size, personnel roster, power plant capacity, and even visibility profile, are dependent on its area of investigation.

Imperial research may delve into many areas. Some examples include anti-matter containment, artificial intelligence, bionics, black globe development, black hole research (both of large-scale and mini black holes), cryptography, deep planetary core soundings, deep radar analysis, disintegrator beams, genetic manipulation, gravity manipulation (advanced), instantaneous transmitter development (so far proving impossible), long-range detection systems, magic (so-called), nova prediction and prevention, personal shields, psionics, psychohistory (mass population behaviour prediction), robotics, stable superheavy elements , stasis and time travel, super-conductors (high-temperature), weaponry research (advanced), and x-ray laser technology.

^^^^

University of Rhylanor

A technically oriented planetary institution designed primarily to support the 8 billion citizens of Rhylanor ( Rhylanor / Spinward Marches 2716). As befits the needs of the small, high-population, technologically sophisticated world, Rhylanor's academic strengths are the hard sciences: biology, chemistry, electronics, gravitics, mechanics, and physics.

Note that, by law, Rhylanor is not allowed to call itself the "U of R". This picayune regulation is a relic granted to the University of Regina.

^^^^

Ringworld

An incredibly strong band could be set rotating about a central star, making a ringworld that uses centrifugal force to provide a simulation of gravity.

A ringworld with a radius of 148 million km (93 million miles) and a width of 1.6 million km (1 million miles) would have a usable surface area equal to three million planets the size of Terra ( Sol / Solomani Rim 1827).

Also see planetoid, rosette, sphereworld.

^^^^

Rosette

Three or more equal masses (worlds) set at the points of an equilateral polygon, and with the correct equal angular velocities about their center of masses, will have a stable orbital configuration. The group does not require a central star. 

Rosettes almost never occur naturally.

Also see planetoid, ringworld, sphereworld.

^^^^

Kirshamii Riilam 

In 1090, partially in reaction to the communication lag during the Fourth Frontier War, Senior Scout Kirshamii Riilam mounted a daring one-ship expedition to test the feasibility of a supply station route across the Great Rift.

Although nominally an IISS venture, General Products provided substantial backing and a Seeker-class ship, Reftbreaker. By removing all non-essentials, the cargo space was expanded to provide a second full fuel tank. This increased Reftbreaker's range to 8 parsecs (two jump-4s). After refuelling in a gas giant in the Yoma ( Vast Heavens / Deneb 3031) system, the expedition returned to Corridor by the same route.

Upon their return they were knighted by Emperor Strephon, and Riilam received a baronial fief on Jafla ( Sinta  / Corridor 1840). The expedition's success increased Strephon's popularity. Serious consideration is being given to the idea of planting several ice asteroids mid-rift as a permanent refuelling station.

Also see the earlier Rydel Expeditions.

^^^^

Saie

"Mysterious non-human civilization" long extinct in Reaver's Deep. 

^^^^

Sandcaster

Defensive starship weapon that dispenses small particles of a granular agent which obstructs light; when fired it interferes with incoming laser or energy weapon fire and protects the ship.

The specific particles used are similar to ablat personal armor; replacement canisters of this special "sand" weigh about 50 kg and cost Cr400. 

^^^^

Scout/Courier
Scout Courier

One of the most commonly encountered ship types in the Imperium is the Type-S scout/courier. Its basic design has remained unchanged for the past century, as the ship is extremely suited to its job as message carrier for the Imperium. Where the xboats don't travel, the scout/couriers must. Even after a long useful life in scout service, the type-S continues to serve on detached duty with retired or ex-Scout personnel.

Estimates of the numbers of scout/couriers in service are arbitrary, as they must work from the counts of those in service, and extrapolate to cover surplus, detached, and foreign scout/couriers; the count ranges from 15,000 to 30,000 in the Imperium, and around 1,000 in the Spinward Marches.

Tough and reliable, the scout/courier is an excellent light travel ship. Commissioned by the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service and designed for exploration, survey, and courier work, it might never be replaced as the best ship for its purpose.

@@@@scoutcourier.jpg

^^^^

System Defence Boat 
(SDB)

A non- starship (a spaceship) specifically intended for defensive operations inside a star system. Developed on the principle that a spaceship, with increased armament and defences due to lack of jump drives, can normally defeat a starship of equal tonnage. SDB's are typically stationed at the vital points of a system (the gas giants, the asteroid belts, the major world's oceans, and so on) and attack invading vessels according to one or more pre-determined plans.

^^^^
Sea Bears

Sea bears (Pseudoarctos ansonii, et al) are large, dangerous, amphibious carnivores native to Thengo ( Chronor / Spinward Marches 0202), but which have been distributed to a large number of worlds in the Chronor, Jewell, Querion, Lianic ( Gvurrdon ), and Massina ( Foreven ) subsectors, apparently as part of pre-Imperial colonization projects. Also known as the "surfer's nightmare".

Adults are typically 1 to 2 meters long, and weigh upwards of 50 kilograms. The skeleton is calciferous, internal, and generally resembles that of a Terran mammalian vertebrate, except in the number of limbs and in the framing of the body cavity. The spinal column runs from the base of the skull dorsally along the body until it reaches the pelvis. Instead of ribs, the sea bear's body cavity is suppoerted by short lengths of bone joined in what some have described as geodesic fashion (i.e., as a series of mutually interconnected triangles). This arrangement is very sturdy, and provides an excellent protection to the internal organs of the sea bear.

Externally, the most notable external feature of the sea bear is the number of limbs. Oddly enough for an animal of its size, the sea bear has four pairs of limbs: one posterior locomotory pair, one anterior pair used in defense and food acquisition, and two medial pairs which can serve either purpose. The head is typical, a bony cranium to protect the brain, upon which are mounted paired sensory organs (eyes, nostrils, ears) and a ventrally located mouth. The nose is located well forward, apparently as an adaptation for breathing while partially submerged.

Sea bears are carnivorous, and are usually found along seashores and in shallow off-shore areas of large bodies of water. Sea bears are solitary hunters, preying upon small aquatic and semi-aquatic animal life. The sea bear usually hunts by swimming slowly along the surface, and diving upon its prey from above, taking it by surprise. Its eight strong limbs make it powerful enough to hunt even in the surf zone.

During the mating season, sea bears will congregate in huge groups, sometimes consisting of hundreds of individuals. These groups settle for several weeks on an island or peninsula protected from dangers to the young, where male and female sea bears engage in a mating ritual not fully documented. Each pair eventually produces one to three young.

As soon as the young are able to travel (usually after six to eight weeks), the group breaks up into family units, which care for the young until they are able to fend for themselves (usually after six months). The family units then break up until the next mating season. Some observers have reported scattered instances of sea bears mating for life, and hunting as a team.

^^^^

Seaharvester
LIC

Founded in 933, Seaharvester specialises in gathering the resources of the oceans of several worlds in the Solomani Rim region.

Noted as pioneers in techniques of seabed mining, sea farming, seawater metals reclamation, and the breeding and herding of various species of useful marine creatures, Seaharvester was purchased outright by SuSAG LIC in 1096. The SuSAG purchase was made to ensure a constant source of the organics required for several of the megacorporation's pharmaceuticals, which Seaharvester provided.

^^^^

Sector-Wide Lines

Sector-wide lines are large merchant lines which serve the major worlds within a sector. They are fed by subsector-wide lines, and they serve as feeders to the megacorporation lines.

Sector-wide lines dominate the major trade routes within the sector, and provide limited service to adjacent sectors.

An example of an Imperial sector-wide line is Al Morai.

^^^^

Senlis Foederate

The Senlis Foederate is a small independent trading and defence alliance within the Pax Rulin subsector, Trojan Reach.

It consists of the systems of Senlis ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 2108), Orsach ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 2008) and Magen ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 2309). The worlds form the first stage of a known jump route across the Outrim Void.

The Foederate has trade connections with the Imperium and with the agricultural worlds of Kydde ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 1810) and Bantral ( Pax Rulin / Trojan Reach 1906), both within the Void.

^^^^

Sensors

Sensors detect the presence of target objects either by detecting energy emitted by the target or by reflecting energy off them and detecting the reflection. The first type of sensor is known as a passive sensor, since it does not emit energy of its own. The second type is known as an active sensor, since it projects energy and bounces it off the target object.

Passive Sensors
Passive EMS uses large antenna arrays to detect any radiation in the electromagnetic spectrum (EMS) from the target object, such as heat or radio waves, or naturally reflected light waves. It is an extremely sophisticated and precise passive sensor.

High-Resolution Thermal (HRT) are sophisticated visual sensors, sensitive to infrared radiation.

Densitometers are passive survey instruments which allow determination of celestial object mass and mapping of mineral deposits and gravitic anomalies.

Neutrino Sensors are passive sensors used when surveying a star system . They enable a ship to measure the intensity of fusion taking place within a star as well as determine if any of the gas giants are failed stars.

Neural Activity Sensors (NAS) are extremely short-range passive sensors which detect and classify life forms according to their level of brain activity.

Active Sensors
Radar is an active sensor which bounces radio waves off target objects and then detects the returning echoes. Distance is determined by the time it takes for the echo to return. Doppler radar is used to determine if an object is moving.

Ladar is a tight beam active sensor that bounces laser light off the target object and detects the reflection. As the laser can scan a very small area, it is used exclusively to lock onto a target after some other search sensor has located it.

Active EMS is an active sensor incorporating a variety of active emitters and passive detectors covering most of the electromagnetic spectrum (EMS), making it a much more sophisticated version of radar.

^^^^

Shivva-class Patrol Frigate

Ubiquitous Zhodani Navy design most frequently encountered of the types deployed on and beyond the Consular frontier districts. The class is deployed on various independent picket, communications, and patrol duties, often well beyond Zhodani borders. The crew is known to include a Psionic Adept, who in addition to normal navigation duties is believed to augment the range and strength of a special communications system, which may explain the posting - Adepts are usually only assigned to capital classes of vessel.

Names of the class generally end in -va ("light", thus Shivva = moonlight); some examples include: Alekrva, Brnava, Doruva, Jadsva, Jirtodva, Loyhva, Mielrva, Shivva, Uturva.

^^^^

Shudusham Robotics Conference

In 404, a group of roboticists met at Shudusham ( Core / Core 2214) to share their latest technological breakthroughs. Shudusham was chosen as the site because of its historical significance (SEE Shudusham Concords) and central location. The conference was a success; so much so, in fact, that the Shudusham Robotics Conference has continued to meet every ten years. Roboticists , manufacturers, heavy robot users, journalists, and other interested parties are drawn from all over explored space to attend a portion of the one-year conference. The last conference was in 1103; the next is due in 1113.

The Karrigashu Undersea Habitat is used only to host the conference. It can support 300,000 people. About 250,000 of the 400,000 attendees are present at any time. Its Robotics Museum, library, and laboratory are popular with attendees.

^^^^

Shriekers

Intelligent minor race native to Shvreeyiyi.

The Shriekers are a pseudo-mammalian race with four pairs of limbs and three pairs of eyes. Each pair of eyes is specialised for a different area of sight: distant sight, near sight (less than 1 meter), and infrared sight. One pair of limbs are used as hands ("manipulators"), and the other three pairs are used for locomotion. However, these limbs are short and the Shriekers can only move relatively slowly. The Shriekers have therefore developed a prosthetic device known as "walking legs". These legs are essentially jointed stilts, harnessed to the six walking limbs, that raise the Shriekers above the ground to allow more rapid travel. Since use of these stilts requires a surgical modification to the limb joints, these Shriekers are permanently crippled if their walking legs are taken from them. However, Shriekers skilled with these legs are able to perform any and all activities without removing them.

Shriekers reproduce sexually via sacs of eggs which are protected and fertilised outside of the body, one at a time. These unfertilised eggs are known to Imperials unaware of their actual nature as "Denuli gems" and can fetch as much as Cr10,000 each. However, Shriekers will not permit such use of their unborn offspring.

^^^^

Shugilii

The "food-processor" or "miller" class in Vilani society, one of the three groups that dominated early Vilani society.

^^^^

Shurshi Cloth

This delicate, iridescent material is strong for its weight, and a shurshi garment retains its beauty for many years. This fantastically expensive substance is produced by an insect native to Zurrian ( xxxxx / Vland nnnn) which has been altered and conditioned to spin its webbing in sheets. The cleaned cloth is shipped beyond the sector - for those who can afford it. Attempts to raise these insects elsewhere have failed.

^^^^

Shuulamane

Insect-like creature native to Khula ( Vland / Vland 1920), the shuulamane was accidentally introduced to Vland ( Vland / Vland 1717) around -2450. The animal is now so common (and so obvious when encountered) that most Vilani do not realize that the shuulamane is not a native species.

The creature is ugly and rodent-like, with dull greenish-gray fur covering its body, except for the head, which is smooth and has no apparent ears. The most obvious feature of the shuulamane is the product of its two powerful scent glands, used to mark carrion and prevent other species from interfering with its find.

Unfortunately, the shuulamane reproduces quickly, with up to four litters of six to ten young each during Vland's (Vland / Vland 1717) long year. The shuulamane can be found in almost every region of Vland (Vland / Vland 1717) with a temperate climate, although eradication of the species in the larger cities has been mostly successful.

The shuulamane is the subject of many Vilani proverbs and folktales, all attesting to the animal's vices of stupidity, laziness, cowardice, foul odor, and lack of cleanliness.

^^^^

Singularity

A point in space-time at which the space-time curvature becomes infinite.

^^^^

Sinzarmes

Subsector-wide merchant line within the Regina subsector. Sinzarmes provides feeder service from the subsector's many worlds to the major trade route worlds.

Sinzarmes is also a major mail carrier, delivering xboat messages to worlds off the main routes.

Home Port: Efate ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1705).

^^^^

Society for the Protection of Terra

Society founded by Admiral Donald Mason in the 1050s, several decades after the Solomani Rim War.

Members of the Society for the Protection of Terra (SPT) recommend that Terra be kept under Imperial rule, and not be allowed self-government again. They argue that since humaniti originated on Terra, the world should be administered as a preserve by the Imperium, and not be given the chance to rebel again, "endangering our glorious heritage and the planet of our origins."

The group is strongest in the Vland sector.

^^^^

SORAG

Civilian intelligence agency in the Vanguard Reaches .

^^^^

Space-time

The four-dimensional space whose points are events.

Three of its dimensions are spatial dimensions; one is the time dimension.

^^^^

Spatial Dimension

Any of the three dimensions of space-time that are spacelike (length, breadth, height), that is, any except the time dimension.

^^^^

Springers

Springers (Arachnofelis var.), also called cave spiders, spider-cats and shrew-spiders, are eight-limbed quasi-mammalian carnivores. Their origin world is not known, but they are found throughout the coreward regions of the Imperium. Although spread widely by the mysterious Ancients, their range was increased considerably by colonists of the First Imperium, as a means for biological pest control.

Massing between 250 and 500 grams, springers average 15 centimeters in length. For reasons not completely understood, springers evolved from a four-limbed form. Each limb evolved into two, the upper portions shortening almost into non-existence. The powerful rear legs are adapted to leaping, and the remaining limbs are used for clinging to prey while poison (from two glands in the mouth) is injected.

Silk is excreted by glands in the upper chest area, which is hairless to prevent tangling. Two modified "thumbs" are used to draw the silk from the glands and manipulate it into a web. The silk produced is adhesive only when excreted, drying rapidly to a thick rope. Webs woven of it are coarse networks which signal the presence and location of prey.

Springer skeleton -Springers are hermaphroditic. Young are born live at any season, in litters of three to five. Since most of their milk glands have evolved into producing silk, springers supplement their youngs' diet with regurgitated, partially digested food.

Springers normally inhabit caves, dense forests, and rock crevices, but can often be found inhabiting piles of rubble and deserted buildings. While not normally dangerous to humans, their bite is painful, and the venom can cause death due to allergic reaction in some individuals.

^^^^

Starmerc

Mercenary organizations licensed to operate military starships.

Licenses range from 10-ton fighters to 5,000-ton vessels, with one charter for a 20,000-ton retired battle rider used as an SDB. Most vessels are in the 300 to 1,000-ton range.

Most organizations obtain their vessels from the Imperial Navy as surplus. Nearly any ship of 50 years or older is an excellent candidate for starmerc services.

^^^^

Order of Starship and Crown

One of the common Imperial orders of knighthood, established by Cleon I in Year 17.

^^^^

Spectrum

The complete range of values of a physical system or phenomenon, especially the range of frequencies available to electromagnetic waves.

Also, the splitting of such a phenomenon into its component frequencies, arranged in order of wavelengths.

^^^^

Stasis

A separation from the time dimension without separation from the spatial dimensions. It is theorized that generating such a "stasis field" would enable a person to "outwait" the universe around him.

^^^^

Strong Force

The strongest of the four fundamental forces, with the shortest range of all. It holds quarks together in protons and neutrons, and holds protons and neutrons together to form atomic nuclei.

^^^^

Subsector-Wide Lines

A subsector-wide line serves major star systems within a subsector, although some service may be extended to systems in adjacent subsectors. The key word is major; a subsector-wide line typically serves between one-quarter to one-third of the worlds within the subsector. The routes operated connect worlds off the main trade routes with those on the main routes. Subsectorwide lines also create their own routes connecting especially lucrative markets.

Subsector-wide lines also extend their service to selected major worlds in adjacent subsector.

Subsector-wide lines serve as feeders to sector-wide lines, while they are themselves fed by fledgling lines and occasional free traders.

An example of a subsector-wide line is Sinzarmes.

^^^^

Suerrat

Intelligent minor race of humaniti, developed from human stock deposited on Volomil ( Miitan / Ilelish 1710) by the Ancients.

The Suerrat have been held to be a minor race, because their achievement of interstellar travel utilised generation ships.

^^^^

Superheavy Elements

Although elements heavier than uranium are increasingly unstable and radioactive (with half-lives measured in fractions of a second), quantum theory predicts an island of stability, consisting of the elements with atomic numbers 114 to 122, which have half-lives measured in the millions of years.

These superheavy elements, also called eka-metals or island metals, are generated in small amounts in supernova explosions. Only a few grams have ever been discovered in nature, which is just enough for scientists to determine that superheavies would be immensely valuable to industry if a source could be found.

^^^^

Supernova

A explosion inside a star that may tear the star apart. If a remnant exists, it will usually be a neutron star or a black hole.

^^^^

Syareahtaorl

Aslan word usually translated as quest. Syar means seeking or searching; taorl conveys the idea of esthetic fortune - honor or fortune rather than money or land.

^^^^

Syleans

Intelligent minor race of humaniti originating from Capital ( Core / Core 2118).

^^^^

Terran Prime
Terran Norm

Terran Prime and Terran Norm are classification terms given to worlds with certain desirable physical characteristics.

Terran Prime (T-prime) worlds are worlds similar to the Terran standard type; such worlds are highly prized as habitations. To be classed as Terran Prime, a world's physical characteristics must fall within the following ranges:

Size 6 - 9 
Atmosphere 4 - 9 
Hydrography 3 - 9 
Gravity 0.6 - 1.1G 

Within this category is the Terran Norm (T-norm) type:

Size 7 - 9 
Atmosphere 6 - 7 
Hydrography 5 - 7 
Gravity 0.75 - 1.1G 

This latter classification almost guarantees successful colonisation or tourist industries.

Note that the actual UPP of Terra ( Sol / Solomani Rim 1827) is A-867A69-F.

SEE also: Terraforming 

^^^^

T-Tauri Stars

A class of stellar objects believed to be stars that have just ignited. Generally surrounded by dense, hot dust clouds.

^^^^

Tahavi

Intelligent minor race of aquatic mantas from Tahaver ( Vland / Vland 2017).

Discovered by a Vilani sublight expedition in -9310, they were the first intelligent race the Vilani encountered.

^^^^

Tahiwihteakhtau

Aslan term meaning "barbarians", generally applied to those who lack understanding of Aslan culture; more especially, those who fail to adopt Aslan ways and culture.

^^^^

TANSTAAFL

Acronym for the phrase "There Ain't No Such Thing As A Free Lunch".

Used by jaded travellers who believe, often through personal experience, that you cannot get something for nothing. The original idea appears to have originated on old Earth, where a sign proclaiming patrons could receive a "free lunch" merely meant the drinks cost twice as much as in other places.

The concept has expanded into the realm of economics, which suggests that someone ends up paying the cost of the "lunch". Even in cases where there is no individual cost, there may well be a social cost. Similarly, someone may benefit from a public good (e.g. a free public transport network) but someone still has to pay the cost of providing this benefit (e.g. the taxpayers).

^^^^

Tapazmal

Intelligent minor race of humaniti native to Dlaejen ( Moibin / Reft 3134).

^^^^

Travellers' Aid Society ( TAS )

The Travellers' Aid Society (TAS) is a private organisation which maintains hostels and facilities at all class A and B starports in many parts of human space. Facilities are available (at reasonable cost) to members and their guests.

TAS membership may be acquired upon mustering out of a service. It is given as a reward for heroism or extraordinary service to the Society, rather than an "official" benefit of the service involved.

Membership may also (less frequently) be purchased, at a cost of MCr1. This is not as prestigious a way of receiving TAS, and people who attempt to buy this "free" gift are often black-balled and refused entry.

Membership is for the life of the character and is not transferable. The Traveller's Aid Society invests its membership fees and other income; it uses its capital to provide benefits to members. Every two months it pays dividends in the form of one High Passage ticket to each member. This ticket may be used, retained, or sold.

^^^^

Tavrchedl'

Literally meaning "Guardians of Our Morality", the Tavrchedl' are the Zhodani "Thought Police".

The infamous Thought Police are a branch of the Zhodani government charged with maintaining right thought by the population. Primarily an internal attitude and security police, their responsibility is internal order within the Zhodani Consulate. Effectively they operate as a secret police force constantly spying on the population with psionics. Their mission is to catch anyone who is discontent with the system, their lot in life, or their superiors, and to brainwash them into acceptance of the system. This brainwashing is known as re-education.

The Tavrchedl' are also charged with locating and removing agents of external powers from the Zhodani Consulate.

During the Frontier Wars, the Thought Police are responsible for the administration of occupied Imperial worlds. The military government is concerned primarily with maintaining a safe and docile population, and proven methods of achieving such a condition include some brutal exploits to prove they are serious, followed by inclusion of locals into the governing process. The people that are included often receive a quick re-education and then take their position with sincerity and dedication to the Zhodani cause. To the rest of the population, the individual appears to be brainwashed or coerced.

^^^^

Teahleikhoi

Famous Aslan mercenary regiment based in the Reavers' Deep sector. The name Teahleikhoi can be translated as "Soldiers of the Falling Night", "Knights of the Setting Sun", or "Warriors of the Evening Star".

Organized and operated as a regiment based in the Uhtaa subsector of Reavers' Deep, the Teahleikhoi regiment is fairly typical of mercenary units that are found in the Hierate. The corporation controlling the unit was organized some 150 years ago by an unmarried female of the Iyhlua clan, and has maintained continuity through a series of handpicked successors to this day. The current owner, Iyhli, is a distant relative of the founder. Like all of the corporation's senior executives, she will hold her post until she dies or is married; at that time, her own chosen successor will take charge of the business.

The regiment proper is set up to handle a variety of situations and circumstances, from formal clan wars within the Hierate to operations without rules cutside the Aslan sphere of influence. Ships supplied by Larleaftea Hryawaorwya, the prominent shipbuilding firm, are essential to the unit's operations, giving the regiment flexible interstellar mobility, and control and support at the scene of battle.

The regiment can mount operations of any size that may be required, from actions involving a single company up to the commitment of the entire regiment. There are thirteen ships available to the unit: nine 3000-ton Eiaikeiar (Hero)-class Intruder Transports for company-level transportation, three 3000-ton Tleiatre (Warlord)-class Battle Leaders for command and control purposes, and a large regimental command ship of 5,000 tons equipped to coordinate large-scale operations. This last ship can carry a small fighter squadron, and transports various other support units as required when the regiment as a whole is committed in combat.

The regiment is typical for this size of Aslan mercenary force, though there are many variations from one unit to the next. Even the composition of the Teahleikhoi regiment itself has varied in the past, as it has adapted to a variety of changing circumstances. Through it all, though, one essential fact has remained unchanged. The regiment is still Teahleikhoi, with history, traditions, and honor unchanged over a century and a half of warfare in and out of the Hierate. That fact is a proud tradition for the soldiers of the regiment to bear.

^^^^

Terraforming

The process of altering a planetary environment to improve habitability. Named in reference to Terra ( Sol / Solomani Rim 1827), the original homeworld of humaniti.

Global terraforming involves making substantial improvements on a world with an unfavorable global environment. An example is terraforming a world with an insidious atmosphere into one with a standard atmosphere.

Total terraforming involves complete transformation of a world's basic environment to a radically different basic environment of one's choosing. An example would be terraforming a barren vacuum world into a lush, rich world with a dense atmosphere.

SEE also: Terran Norm , Terran Prime 

^^^^

The Three

This religion holds that there three deities of equal power but different outlook. One is good, one is evil, and the third mediates between the other two. Doctrine is dedicated to the precepts of law and order.

Imperial scholars believe that the religion began in Zhodani space long ago. Worship of the Three flourishes in the Imperium, but it is nevertheless watched by Imperial authorities.

A popular holy symbol is a group of three small, identical objects (preferably gems or crystals) worn around the wrist, neck, or head. Most believers are traditionalists. A number of church officials have publicly supported right wing political candidates.

^^^^

Tlaosierlahrau

A spice derived from the seed of the tlaosiear, a tree found on Roakhoi ( Ea / Reavers' Deep 1224). Also known as tlaospice, tlao, or seasongold.

The golden seed kernels, when ground, produce a fragrant, light seasoning popular with both Aslan and human gourmets on meat, soups, and stews. Because of the scarcity of tlaosiear and the expense of shipping it, tlaospice commands an impressive price of Cr3 per gram in offworld markets.

^^^^

Tlaserlaahel

An interface line operating between the Aslan Hierate and worlds in Reavers' Deep sector, this merchant corporation is controlled by the Yehaso clan, a strong Aslan group on Roaa ( Uhtaa / Reavers' Deep 0237).

Tlasayerlaahel is a powerful company with many interests in the Deep, among them the tlaospice trade with Roakhoi ( Ea / Reavers' Deep 1224), the rithscent trade with Htalrea ( Ea / Reavers' Deep 1226), and some commercial contact with the natives of Gaajpadge ( Ea / Reavers' Deep 1124), from whom glasswares and other objects d'art are obtained.

Tlaserlaahel is currently engaged in stiff economic competition with the human merchants of Caledon Ventures, Ltd.

^^^^

Trasilon

A biracial intelligence organization created by Brzk after seceding from the Imperium. Both humans and Vargr are full participants.

^^^^

Travel Suit

The Travel Suit (or TeeSuit) is a garment especially designed for Dolphins. This garment is a combination gravitic vehicle and environment suit, which contains a super-humid atmosphere for the health and comfort of its wearer. Early versions are available at TL 12, cost Cr125,000, weigh 12 kg (with the grav modules turned off), and provide fairly comfortable support for up to 12 hours. By TL 15, the cost has increased to Cr150,000 but the suit only weighs 7 kg, and provides very comfortable accomodations for up to 48 hours.

In all cases, the helmet includes a polylucent cuprothallium visor with a full heads-up display tied into an on-board computer/communication array. This system is equivalent to a hand computer in data processing power with a regional (500 km) range audio/video transceiver capability.

The suit is capable of flight at up to 100 kph. Normal cruise speed is only about 75 kph and NOE speed is 20 kph. In combat, the suit is equal to cloth-1 (TL 12-13) and cloth-2 (TL 14+). The TeeSuit provides its wearer with complete protection from temperatures ranging from -100 degrees C to +100 degrees C, and pressures of up to 5 atm. Waldos are an optional extra.

A combat version exists (Type D battle dress) with the same armour rating as human battle dress. It includes a sonar amplifier (range 1 km), integral waldos, and a chameleon surface, often set to dark grey above blending to light grey/white on the lower surface. A special snout ram can be fitted, as well as a torpedo rack.

^^^^

True Humanity Society

This radical group believes that when the Ancients brought humaniti from Terra ( Sol  / Solomani Rim 1827) they took the sentient Terrans and left only the subhuman "apemen" of Terra. They also believe that pure-blooded Vilani should cooperate with the Zhodani and some of the minor races to "put the apes back in the zoo" (i.e. Terra).

After its founding by Sunaam Parshish and Khadu Shaa in 1076 and a few brief years of activity, the True Humanity Society is now almost extinct.

^^^^

Tyeyo Fteahrao Yolr

Aslan interface line.

During the period immediately after the Aslan Border Wars (around 380 to 500), the Aslan discovered dust-spice, a novel spice which appealed to Aslan tastes, but which was available only in the Spinward Marches. When Aslan traders realised the Aslan Hierate would be a large market for dust-spice, Tyeyo Fteahrao Yolr (literally "Tyeyo Dust-spice Importers") was established to import the novelty.

Since then, synthetic dust-spice has become available, and natural dust-spice is now a gourmet treat but no longer imported in great quantities. Tyeyo Fteahrao Yolr instead seeks out and imports any novel novel or valuable trade goods along the route from Mora ( Mora / Spinward Marches 3124) to the Aslan capital of Kusyu ( Kilrai' / Dark Nebula 1919).

Home Port: Kusyu ( Kilrai' / Dark Nebula 1919).

Territory: Dark Nebula, Ealiyasiyw, Riftspan Reaches Trojan Reach, and the Spinward Marches sectors.

^^^^

Uncertainty Principle

In quantum physics, a principle that states you can never be exactly sure of both the position and the velocity of an atomic particle. The more accurately you know one of these properties, the less accurately you can know the other.

This is not an observational problem. Rather, quantum particles have an intrinsic uncertainty: they do not have well-defined positions and momentum.

^^^^

Ungzoenogzkha

Vargr corsair band headquartered in Meshan sector.

This group has recently diversified its product line to include bargain-priced heavy construction robots. The low price and high quality of these robots is easy to explain: they are stolen.

^^^^

Vekkur

Vilani religion believing a Supreme Being applies a universal law to judge the conduct of all sentient life. A believer's fate in the afterlife depends on understanding and observing that law. Members use no holy symbols, but always wear some form of white garment.

Most noted as pacifists, the Vekkur believe that all things have an equal right to live. They seek to never harm life, and will not kill under any circumstances. The name Vekkur comes from a mythical Vilani creature able to cure disease which the Supreme Being sent as proof of his existence.

^^^^

Vemene

Covert security agency for Tukera Lines.

^^^^

Verbal Override

A procedure used with low- to medium-tech computer-controlled security systems, where a specific codeword may be used as absolute identification. When used, the codeword bypasses all other identification circuits, and automatically authorises the presence of the individual concerned.

Primary use of such systems is in the military, where large numbers of individuals may be using the same system.

^^^^

Virtual Particle

In quantum mechanics, a particle that can never be directly detected, but whose existence does have measurable effects.

^^^^

Vlazhdumecta

General name given to the original colonists who settled much of the Far Frontiers region. Their origins are obscure, but they are believed to have been a minor race of humaniti flourishing in the Afachtiabr sector some 6000 years ago, during the early period of Zhodani interstellar expansion. The race absorbed a great deal of culture and technology from the Zhodani. They founded a wide-spread mercantile and commercial empire that included the Far Frontiers sector.

Zhodani absorption of the Vlazhdumecta homeworlds triggered the breakdown of their interstellar civilization. Far from being self-sufficient, most of their colonies lapsed into barbarism. Few ever recovered.

Vlazhdumecta composed the basic population of most settled Far Frontiers worlds until settlers from the Third Imperium came 800-900 years ago. Except for certain anomalies, no trace of Vilani / Solomani orientation or influence appeared in the Far Frontiers until then.

^^^^

Heinrich Volkstrangler 

Homicidal maniac who personally engineered the Invasion of Utoland (1103). Born into a military family on the high-population world of Trin ( Trin's Veil / Spinward Marches 3235), Volkstrangler pursued an illustrious career through the Imperial Marines. He rose to the rank of Force Commander, receiving many decorations, the pinnacle of which was the Starburst For Extreme Heroism , won while serving aboard the battleship ISS  Golden Redemption . Volkstrangler was also elevated from Baron to Marquis for his Marine service.

This record contrasts greatly with his later actions. In 1103 he organised a small, high-tech invasion force which overran Utoland ( Jewell / Spinward Marches 1209) within two weeks. In the process, he infiltrated and captured the Adamdun, a Kinunir-class battle cruiser, and used it to support the invasion.

Volkstrangler was presumed killed when the Imperial counter-strike freed Utoland . However, recent reports suggest that the Adamdun currently resides in the Sword Worlds, so it is possible that Volkstrangler is still alive.

^^^^

Waldos

A waldo is a type of mechanical manipulation device, taking the form of an artificial arm and hand.

The first uses of waldos were to manipulate objects in hostile or dangerous environments, such as in "hot cells" in radiation labs. Later they were used by humans as an alternative (or an adjunct to) artificial limbs. People who were too crippled or injured to use conventional prosthetics could have waldos fitted to their travel chairs. Also, some races (most notibly, some of the Solomani "uplifted" species) must use waldos to substitute for their lack of "hands".

The major example of waldos used by a species is the case of the Dolphins. Early versions (TL 9) were worn as a harness or mounted on a TeeSuit, and were controlled by movements of the tongue and head. They were vary clumsy and weak, only able to move weights of 25 kg or less. They cost Cr150,000 and weigh 20 kg.

At TL 12, medical and robotic advances allow the surgical implanting of neural control plugs in Dolphins. Waldos can then be directly controlled by the brain of the user, becoming far less clumsy. At TL 15, Dolphins using waldos are as adept as humans. Strength is also enhanced, allowing objects of up to 100 kg to be freely manipulated. Cost of the operation is Cr150,000 at TL 12, dropping by Cr15,000 at each subsequent tech level. TL 12 waldos cost Cr250,000 and weigh 10 kg.

^^^^

Wavelength

For a wave, the distance between two adjacent troughs or two adjacent crests.

^^^^

Weak Force

The second weakest of the four fundamental forces, with a very short range. It affects all matter particles, but not force-carrying particles.

^^^^

Weight

The force exerted on a body by a gravitational field. It is proportional to, but not the same as, its mass.

^^^^

White Dwarf

A stable, cold star, supported by the exclusion principle repulsion between electrons.

^^^^

Afeahyalhtow

Afeahyalhtow, Winged life-form native to the Aslan homeworld, Kusyu ( Kilrai' / Dark Nebula 1919). Its scientific name is Aculeoptera venator; human names are winger, batsting, or falconbat. These carnivore/killer flyers mass roughly 1 kg, and have a wingspan of .75 metres. Their lower limbs have evolved as grasping claws to carry prey or perch on tree limbs or high rocks.

Afeahyalhtow have sharp eyesight, with cat-like eyes that can adjust to a wide range of lighting conditions. They soar at high altitudes, then swoop down on prey. One claw can inject a poison which paralyses within a few minutes. Its effects wear off after about an hour. The venom is not usually harmful to creatures over 5 kg, but can be deadly to humans who develop an allergic reaction. The primary purpose of the poison is to slow the prey or render it unconcious, allowing the afeahyalhtow to feed (it prefers live meat). Teeth and claws can only do a little damage to the prey, but this is sufficient to make an excellent meal for the afeahyalhtow. The beast then feeds for a few minutes before departing.

Domesticated long before the Aslan achieved star flight, afeahyalhtow are popular as pets, and are found almost anywhere Aslan are found. They are independent, somewhat aloof, but capable of strong affection and attachment - often likened to cats in human space. As pets, they are relatively gentle and companionable, but most humans find their feeding habits distasteful. Afeahyalhtow eat almost any variety of small animals or raw meat.

Domesticated afeahyalhtow are raised and trained much as falcons and garhawks in human space. Properly trained, they can be used to track and hunt prey; such trained hunters will administer poison to the prey, but will feed only when permitted to do so by their owner. Training of an afeahyalhtow takes a moderate hunting skill and 6-12 months before the animal will respond to commands (usually various whistle and tongue-clicking signals). A hunter's ability is much improved when using these sharp-eyed animals!



Afeahyalhtow respond poorly to being caged; they become listless, lose their hunting spirit, and eventually die. Most owners let them fly free, after attaching small straps around their feet to prevent the stinger claw from functioning. On a starship, they usually require an hour or two per day of flying in the ship's cargo compartment or some other open space. Afeahyalhtow can fly in any standard or dense atmosphere, and in thin atmospheres on worlds with a size of 4 or less. Their size and build prevents them from being outfitted with protective gear, so they are rarely seen outdoors on worlds with tainted (or worse) atmospheres. Afeahyalhtow are not common in human space, except on worlds heavily settled by Aslan colonists. Some humans do keep them as pets, and they command high prices commercially.

^^^^

World

Any inhabited astronomical body.

A world can be a planet like Terra, a planet's satellite, an airless world with domed or underground cities, a hollowed-out planetoid, or an artificial satellite such as a space station.

^^^^

Yaskoydray

A myth common to all Droyne societies is that of a god-like savior figure, known as Yaskoydray, who brought coyns to its people, and introduced harsh strictures against abandoning the way of life he brought.

Yaskoydray means "Grandfather" in Oynprith.

^^^^

Yerlyaruiwo

The most powerful clan in the Tlaukhu (Aslan ruling council).

^^^^

Abh

The first letter in the Darrian standardized alphabet. One of the five basins on the surface of Darrian.

^^^^

Abh Project

One of two Darrian research projects charged with investigating irregularities in the energy output of Tarnis. Its chosen method of sending an experimental probe deep into the interior of Tarnis resulted in massive disruptions of the star's energy balance, triggering the Maghiz. The Abh project was based in the asteroid belt located in first orbit of the Darrian system; all trace of the project was destroyed by the stellar flares the project triggered.

^^^^

Basin

Basic geographic feature on the surface of Daryen. Daryen has 5 isolated seas, each totally unconnected to the others. Each sea drains a basin; each basin is effectively an independent ecology.

^^^^

Boyr

One of five basins on Daryen.

^^^^

Daryen

Te-zlodh word for world; native name for the Darrian homeworld.

^^^^

Entropic Worlds

A group pf four worlds, including Entrope and its three neighbors.

^^^^

Maghiz

The devastation caused by the stellar flares of Tarnis in -925.

^^^^

Onsorik

The Ancient responsible for selecting the humans from Terra that were transported to Daryen.

^^^^

Orchard

An arrangement of specially selected trees created by the Ancients. An orachard provided shelter an food the Daryens when they were first brought to Daryen.

^^^^

Nyadh

One of five basins on Darrian.

^^^^

Rimb

One of five basins on Darrian.

Stronghold: The Solomani base established on Daryen in -1521 when they first arrived on Daryen. Located on a high mountain plateau where Rimb, Boyr, and Abh basins meet, it was intended as a secret retreat for the Solomani in the event public opinion turned against them. By -1450, the Solomani were an accepted part of Daryen society, and the Stronghold became known as a research and manufacturing center.

^^^^

Tarnis

The primary star of the Darrian system.

^^^^

Udh

The last letter in the Daryen standardized alphabet.

^^^^

Udh Project

One of two Darrian research projects charged with investigating irregularities in the energy output of Tarnis. Its chosen method was to analyze the interior of the star by measuring the interference of two intersecting meson beams. One beam was projected from Darrian itself while the other was projected from a reasearch laboratory on Telaret, a moon af the gas giant Leryin in fourth orbit of the system. The project achieved some interesting preliminary results, but was terminated when the Maghiz struck.

^^^^

Archives

A repository of public, official, military and/or historical records.  Usually associated with one or more  political factions in the Beyond.

^^^^

Containment Facility

An entire world maintained as a prison of those found guilty of the prevailing law,  regulations, customs or mores.  In the Comsentient Alliance worlds the only crime worthy of 'containment' is anti-sentient  crimes. IDES containment facilities not only handle IDES prisoners but also contract with various political entities to  contain their criminals.

^^^^

Outpost

Similar to an Imperial way station, but of course, non-Imperial. A base for the storage, maintenance, refitting, & refueling of equipment belonging to the political faction with authority over the station or subsector.

^^^^

Relay Point

A local committed to the relaying of data, goods, or entities  for specific purposes.  Many are Licensed  Information Communication Exchange(LICE) relay points.  Some these are Imperial relay points leased from, or at least  tolerated by the Comsentient Alliance.  A few are rumored to be under pirate or criminal control and/or influence.

^^^^

Sanctuary

A world where any sentient may find safety, regardless of the reason.  Extradition is almost impossible.   However on some Sanctuary worlds, those granted sanctuary may lack the rights of citizens: the right to vote, carry weapons,  appeal to the courts, or even earn a living.

^^^^

Imperial Installations

Special, important Imperial stations in the Beyond, combining research & intelligence  and capable of support Imperial operations. The most notorious is Starbase Arcturus II in I-Glathriel.  Installations are  officially under the aegis of the IISS with a Senior Master Scout in charge.

^^^^

Research Facility

A facility dedicated to one or more research projects of interest to a political faction, a private  corporations, criminal organizations, or public or private foundation.

^^^^

X-TEK (X-tek)
Industries of Deneb, LIC

X-TEK is a primary developer and producer of aerospace, space, and starcraft for the Domain of Deneb. Mainly a contractor for the Imperial Navy and ISS, Civil designs are aslo produced either as military surplus and outdated designs or as civilian specific merchantcraft and freighters. X-TEK also produces its own line of transport and bulk carriers to deliver its products throughout the Domain. Shipyards for the average citizen are available at most Class A Starports with sufficient local technology production.

Nature: Publicly Listed Company with wide sharholder base
Headquarters: HRD/1623 Deneb
Employees: Billions
Range: Domain of Deneb plus Corridor Sector
Revenue: Huge
Risk: Small
Influence: Very Major, nearly Dominant within the Domain of Deneb
Public Image: Average, Popular within the Domain of Deneb
Primary Industry Classification: Starship Manufacturing
Secodary Industry Classifications: Construction and Retail Trade
R&D: Low Average. Focusing primarily on weaponry, propulsion and Black Globe systems
Corporate Style: Based on Naval tradition. Company is Decentralized.
Governing Body: CEO and 3 XO's plus the Shareholder Moot
Security: Very Tight. Enforeced by the BureauX, X-TEK's elite counter-espionage team.
Employee Relations:  Average
Ownership: 
 X-TEK 60%; IN 10%; Domain Nobles: 7%; Private Stockowners: 6%;
 Imperial Family: 5% MIDI 5%; GSBaG 3%; Instelarms: 2%; General Shipyards: 1% 


HISTORIC TIMELINE
Early Imperium. 0-200 (M:0)
 X-TEK Industries born from the old Experimental Technologies Group. Specializing in Small, fast warships and weapons technology. Subsidiaries grew from the benefits of military technology, mostly in computer/robotics and personal sensing gear. In year 20 the Imperial Ship Builder's Association(ISBA) was founded between X-TEK and Founder Shipworks to promote the shipbuilding industry in the early Imperium. During this period was the mighty space station, "Planet X" active. From this remote location in deep space hex 2116 of Core Sector did X-TEK base its operations for nearly 650 years, while also providing a center of trade and commerce. By year 50, news of the new frontier to spinward came to Planet X. The Commander was growing old, the time for expansion was at hand. In year 55 X-TEK funded an expedition to Deneb Sector to found an Industrial colony. X-TEK weapons and military strategy proved well in the Vargr ridden Corridor. The Commander X survived to see his new Denebian colony founded. His tomb is hidden on that world.
 By year 100, the Pacification Campaigns were in full swing. Emperor Artemsus was pleased at X-TEK's fine warships, many were bought during these wars, much to the boon of the corporation. The new Commander (In honor of Commander X, all CEO's of X-TEK are given the title 'Commander', although it holds no true Naval rank) was as cunning and ingenious in his designs as Commander X, and led the Company into a 'Golden Age'. The Denebian branch however, concentrated more on exploratory craft than purely military craft. X-TEK Scouts and Survey vessels had the best sensors the current TL could handle. By then end of the Campaigns, X-TEK began to steer its interests Spinward.

200-600 (Antebellum Period) 
 X-TEK Industries fell into hard times after the Pacification Campaigns. Military technology was in less demand. No new designs had been created since about year 200. Then in the 4th century, a new technology was discovered. X-Ray lasers. Before X-Ray lasers needed a nuclear explosion to power them, but now the power of x-rays was available in a standard turret mount. X-TEK pioneered this new weapon technology as Imperial Warships came to Planet X for laser refits. X-ray lasers were then distributed throughout the Imperium. And just in time for the Frontier Wars with the Zhodani. The Commander saw the war as a new 'Golden Age' and made the decision to relocate to the Domain of Deneb. Core was already on its feet, and Planet X could do better 'Behind the Claw'. Using the gargantuan station's emergency Jump Drive, which was limited to Jump-1 and consumed all of the stations reserve fuel (originally for refueling starships). Planet X began it's 7 year trek across the Imperium to meet with it's sister facility in Deneb Sector.

600-700 (Civil War)
 Civil war had come to the Mighty Imperium. Emperor's and Empresses' warred with each other for control of the Iridium Throne. The ISBA split up and disbanded as each company became loyal to their own Imperial candidate. X-TEK would not take sides in this conflict. X-TEK discontinued it's military contracts. This began serious hard times for the company as profits dwindled. Finally, X-TEK decided to back one of the Domain's own, Admiral Olav hautPlankwell. X-TEK did well in repairing and upgrading Plankwell's ships. And replacing those lost in battle, but it was to pay dearly for taking sides in this war. The great and venerable space station, Planet X, was destroyed in battle by a rival faction. 

700-1116 (Frontier Wars to Modern Day)
 Planet X was destroyed. X-TEK's main production facility was gone. It was decided that X-TEK would become decentralized. By the next few frontier wars with the Zhodani, X-TEK factories sprung up all over the Domain. The company changed its name to X-TEK Industries of Deneb, LIC. New Technologies were created and used in the war efforts, new exploratory systems developed. Jump drive technology advanced to J-6. A new breed of ship was created based on the old Assault Scout line. Jump-4/Manuever-4 and packed with TL-15 Lasers. This new line was called the Intruder-Scout. This ship could be anywhere at a moments notice to spy or do 'hit and fade' missions. Black Globe technology became the X-TEK claim to fame by 1100, as most of its R&D budget went into this strange new technology. It is rumored that His Excellency Duke Norris has commissioned X-TEK of Deneb to research Disintegrator technology. Today, the company seems to have entered a new 'Golden Age'

Where we stand now
 X-TEK Industries of Deneb, LIC has been through trials and tribulations since its noble beginnings. X-TEK currently supplies the Imperium with small, fast ships. Our Intruder Scouts are the obvious symbol of the company. We offer the best TL-15 has to offer, in weapons, military starship design and military based civilian hardware. Research into the next level of technology has begun, with research into Black Globe and smaller 10ton 'pod' energy weapons. See our catalog listing of products and starships.

Naval Production Facility
The X-TEK NPF is the shining glory of the company. Ever since the dawn of the Imperium X-TEK has worked as an Imperial Naval contractor. X-TEK NPF's include planetside drydock facilities and the infamous Planet-X class orbital naval production stations. All NPF's also include general corporate shipyards,and R&D faclities. X-TEK usualy installs such facilities on worlds where there is a solid naval backing and sufficient high technology to build the top-of-the line ships. Such worlds have a class-A/V starport with a naval base and are at the highest level of current technology (TL15 or GTL12).

Shipyards
X-TEK Shipyards are a step below the massive NPF described above and come in many flavors depending on the shipyard's purpose and financial backing.Sometimes an X-TEK Shipyard will include more than one type of shipyard. Shipyards have both orbital and ground elements depending on the ships being built.
Naval Contractor - A shipyard funded by the Imperial Navy. Commonly found at Class-B/IV starports with a naval base and TL of at least 14 (GTL11). As class B/IV starports are incapable of building starcraft, X-TEK imports those componets that cannot be built localy with the cost covered by the IN.
Scout Contractor - Same as Naval contractor above, but is funded by the ISS. These shipyards tend to crank out the Assault Scouts and other variants created by X-TEK. These shipyards also build the advanced electronics and sensor arrays. As scouts love gadgets, some subsidiary facilities commonly accompany such shipyards.
Corporate - Corporate intrests fund these shipyards. These yards cater to the company itself and produce the large megafreighters that carry ships and equipment to all X-TEK distubution points. It is not unusual to find a Civil shipyard next to the Corporate ones. These yards are at all Class A Starports that do not have a naval or scout base and with high technology available (TL14-15, GTL11-12).
Civil Shipyards - This is the little brother to the Corporate yard above. These are by far the most common X-TEK shipyards available and cater to the general populace. Ships are available from TL9 to TL13 at these yards. Merchant and Mercenary craft being most popular, but some old Type-S are bought as well. Civil shipyards also include our repair, upgrade, and overhaul facilities.

Naval Distribution Node
 There are some worlds that are not capable of producing starcraft on planet, but are still home to a Naval Fleet. These fleets are supplied by our Naval Distribution Nodes. Ships are produced off world and are delivered to the base at these facilities. Such facilities are at any Naval base that is home to a numbered fleet where the world cannot produce TL15 starships. For example Efate, home to the 214th Fleet. Efate has a local TL of 13(GTL10), but the naval base is very important. An X-TEK Naval Distribution node is available for naval procurement of product directly to the fleet.


Civil Repair, Upgrade, and Overhaul Yards
Usualy included with our Civil shipyards, these facilities are also available at Class B Starports where our shipyards would not generaly be available.

Distribution Node
These are facilities set up along our distribution network for the refueling and maintainance of X-TEK supply ships.

Subsidy Shops
Antioch Arms, GravametriX, Noble Image and others can be found at most Class A and B Starports throught the Domain.

^^^^

GravametriX

GravametriX, a wholy owned subsidiary of X-TEK, produces quality grav vehicles throught the Domain of Deneb in both the civil and military markets. Everything from grav belts and 'broomsticks' to High Tech military speeders and Grav Tanks. GravametriX showrooms and dealerships are found at most Class A/V and B/IV Starports throught the Domain.

^^^^
Dakaar Corporation

The Dakaar Corporation is headquartered on Dakaar (Reaver's Deep 1821), which is owned by and for the corporation. Several divisions have been spun off  Dakaar Minerals, which runs the planetary lanthanum mines and seeks to exploit mineral wealth elsewhere in the subsector; Dakaar Trading, which operates a small fleet of starships in trade and commercial ventures; Dakaar Brokers, a widespread firm with offices on most worlds in the region which matches up buyers and sellers of everything from cargos to starships; and Dakaar Surveys, which maintains a private Scout-type organization. 

Dakaar itself continues to be the corporation's single largest asset, but the conglomerate's other interests are collectively much greater in terms of fame, profits, and attention. Though by no means as powerful as the regional office of a megacorporation would be, the Dakaar Corporation thinks big, and is doing everything possible to continue growing by leaps and bounds. This includes any number of unethical, immoral, or even outright illegal, actions. The management's motto might well be "if we don't get caught, it's worth a try!" 

It is suspected that the corporation is behind some of the attempts to force the Imperium to close down their base on Outpost (Reaver's Deep 1926), apparently in hopes of profiting from greater disorder in the region, and from the loss of Imperial support for the Cassandra (Reaver's Deep 1924) Belt, that it might be reclaimed by the company. 

^^^^

Aikhiy Development Trust

After the Peace of Ftahalr, Aikhiy (Reavers' Deep 1634) was settled by humans recruited by the Aikhiy Development Trust, a joint venture between Venice (Reavers' Deep 1534) and Gralyn (Reavers' Deep 1735).  The intent was to establish an agricultural world to supply the growing demand for inexpensive, quality foodstuffs on both worlds.

^^^^

Arbuthnot Minerals and Resources Ltd

This is a Caledonian mining company.

^^^^

Banff System Company

This company exploits the resources of the Banff (Reaver's Deep 1831) system to help support Collin's World (Reaver's Deep 1631). 

^^^^

Brandon System Company

Based on Collin's World (Reaver's Deep 1631), the Brandon System Company was incorporated to exploit the material resources of the Brandon (Reaver's Deep 1632) to help support Collin's World. The company leases the miners their equipment, sells them their air & food and purchases their ore.

^^^^

The 93

An Elite company within the Knights Legion, the 93 are a specialist reconnaissance and strike team often used to soften up targets before the main ground forces come in.  The 93 have a variety of skills that can be used to disable or destroy a target's infrastructure assets.
  The 93 were created in 994 at the request of the government of <security access required> when the Knights Legion was engaged in a mercenary ticket to infiltrate a local rebellion on the planet.  The 93 successfully infiltrated the rebel cell and disabled their computer network, enabling government troops to destroy the cell.
  Membership to the 93 is restricted to only 93 members, with a coveted place only opening up upon the retirement or (more likely) the death of a member.  It is rumoured within the Knights Legion that special privileges, higher pay and even land grants are the perks of membership of the 93, but little information comes out of the Knights Legion about the unit, and nothing comes out from the members themselves.

^^^^

Aariskin Corporation

The Aariskin Corporation of Ildrissar (Reaver's Deep 2326) owned eight Dakaar class freighters.  These freighters were based upon a design first developed by Starstream Enterprises on Caledon (Reaver's Deep 1815).

^^^^

Aeitle Sakh

The Trokh (Aslan language) name for Reavers' Deep sector

^^^^

Adwuj

A slightly syrupy beverage, usually served heated, that's made from the fermented sap of several varieties of trees on Gaajpadje (Reavers' Deep 1124).  The bitter-sweet flavour has often been described as a cross between liquorice, cinnamon, and burnt wood.

^^^^

Akakhad

A major ethnic subdivision of the Iltharans, native to Drexilthar (Reavers' Deep 1826).  They were absorbed into the Iltharan Empire, but never completely lost their identity.

^^^^

Aokhalte Clan

Tlaukhu rank 10.  The Aokhalte, Sahao', and Ouokhoi clans are currently faced with overpopulation problems.  Quickly running out of land on habitable worlds, the ihatei of this bloc have had to settle for space in places such as the interiors of asteroids. The dissatisfaction among these clans gave impetus for the new rush to colonise Imperial worlds by the Aorlakht. 
  Perhaps because of the overcrowding, these clans face much internal strife. Members tend to be touchy. Duels are frequent. Interfamily feuds are also common and are bloodier than among other clans. 
  Aokhalte are noted for their aggressiveness in battle and their willingness to risk themselves. They are known to employ suicide tactics to save desperate situations. In ground conflicts, they usually enjoy a large numerical advantage.  They freely sacrifice lives in living waves in order to overwhelm and capture fortified positions.

^^^^

Aquapur

A fine liqueur from Hihlas (Reavers' Deep 1537).  Brewed from Fickleweed, it commands a high price and is exported throughout the sector.

^^^^

Au'alrealko

Ancient Aslan philosopher who formulated the concepts of honour as they are known today among most Aslan. So important was this achievement that her name is written with the "ko" particle usually reserved for clan heads. This remarkable token of respect indicates that all Aslan, in one sense, could be considered her clansmen and descendants, since they follow her teachings.

^^^^

Bruhre

The Bruhre are a non-human Imperial race originating in the Daibei sector. The Bruhre are a massive, hexopedal race who themselves are accustomed to a high atmospheric sulphur content (they find the tainted atmosphere of Loren (Reavers' Deep 2311) breathable, but rather bland and tasteless). Their body chemistry is such as to permit them to eat the plants and animals of Loren with relish; humans find such food highly poisonous.  
  The Bruhre are a complex and often unfathomable race, bound to a life of ritual and ceremony. They have complicated laws covering almost every aspect of their lives; it is said that a Bruhre can go for days on end and never say, do, or think a single thing that is not strictly regulated by law and custom. They are also a remarkably intolerant race, and outsiders are expected to comply with their ways totally. For this reason, the Bruhre usually are isolated from the mainstream of other Imperial cultures. 

^^^^

Caledon Highlanders

Organised by Colonel Fraser shortly after his retirement from service with the Principality Marine's in 1098, the Caledon Highlanders have earned a reputation for fighting skill which has spread through much of Reavers' Deep and into adjoining Imperial and Solomani territories. Fraser's mercenaries have fought in several of the petty wars that have kept the region in turmoil over the past decade. Between active campaigns, the unit has been employed in such diverse occupations as furnishing guards to mineral exploration firms operating in the heart of the Deep, garrisoning the recent settlement on New Haven against the aboriginal natives, and acting as a cadre force for the expanding army of the Thorinian Confederacy. 

^^^^

Principality of Caledon

The largest independent, human-governed state in the Reavers' Deep sector, covering large portions of the Caledon and Scotian Deep subsectors.  The Principality as such was established in -102 by Jamieson Dundas of Caledon (Reavers' Deep 1815); it has remained relatively stable.
     
The area that is now the Principality was settled during the latter part of the period of the Interstellar wars between the Terran Confederation and the First Imperium.  The settlers of the region, largely of Western European origins, were a group of political malcontents who rejected the growing Terran trend toward absorption of the Vilani Empire.  They maintained (rightly, as it turned out) that Terra would be unable to support the burden which had already brought the Vilani into decline.  Financed by a prominent banker, Charles Stuart Scott, these people assembled a colonizing expedition in the interval between two of the interstellar wars, and traveled far from either Terran or Vilani space.  

Settlement on Caledon, and exploration of several adjacent systems, followed.  A period of struggle against their new untamed environments resulted in the loss, for quite some time, of jump drive technology.  Traders from one of the petty states that emerged during the Long Night restored the necessary technology, and the Principality arose shortly thereafter.  Officially the first state to check the piracy and lawlessness of the so-called "Reavers", less charitable histories often refer to the Principality as the last and greatest of the Reaver Kingdoms.

The government of the Principality is a Constitutional Monarchy, headed by the Hereditary Prince of Caledon, and backed by a House of Lords, a House of Delegates, and a Grand Senate.  Local rule is left largely in the hands of individual worlds; the Principality regulates interstellar relations, war, and trade.  Often described as a commercial kingdom, Caledon is famous for the extent and wealth of its great trading houses.

^^^^

Caledon Royal Mail

The Principality of Caledon's equivalent to the Imperial X-boat system. This system serves the Principality, the Grand Duchy of Douglass and a few systems beyond the Principality.

^^^^

Caledon Ventures

A growing mercantile firm based in the principality of Caledon.  Caledon Ventures has been one of the companies responsible for opening major new markets within Reavers' deep sector.  Caledon is best recognised for the Type A2 far traders it employs on its exploratory trade missions.  As of 331-1113, Caledon Ventures bought-out and merged the Scotian Deep Trading Company into its operation. 
  In 1113 they set up a permanent trade base, in an effort to break the Aslan corporation, Tlasayerlaahels monopoly on risthscent.  Contact was lost with the base in 1114 when Tlasayerlaahel retaliated and destroyed the base.  This appears to be a prelude to further operations against Caledon Ventures, which has in recent years has encroached upon Tlasayerlaahels domination of Ea subsector. 

^^^^

Carrillian Assembly

The Carrillian Assembly is the second largest human-dominated independent political state in the Reavers' Deep Sector.  The Carrillian Assembly is spread across parts of four subsectors and is composed of 21 member systems.  One system, Yarhfahl, is a client of the Assembly, but is not an active member.

Drexilthar Subsector
 Sarrad 2129
 Yarhfahl 2228 (client)
 Datinar 2230
 Ildrissar 2326
 CARRILL 2330
 Lindritar 2429

Urlaqqash Subsector
 Yaggoth 2530
 Boran 2628
 Syreon 2730
 Lyresse 2828
 Rothman 2829

Drinsaar Subsector
 Lanixohn 2033
 Kaihadd 2034
 Taraan 2133
 Sian 2234
 Iskara 2431
 Santol 2433

Fahinar Subsector
 Istieru 2532
 Faranim 2632
 Astorga 2633
 Lanisteg 2732
 Gramarye 2932

The Carrillian Assembly was formed in 519, when a number of worlds in the Drexilthar and Fahlnar subsectors fought wars which threatened to plunge the region into a general interstellar war. The Imperium, wishing to maintain this area as a buffer between themselves and the Aslan, stepped in and "suggested" they peacefully settle their differences.  A series of conferences held in the quiet backwater Carrill system (specifically, Blair Rock, Carrillian Belt, 2330) led to an agreement to form a federation of systems for the regulation of trade, economic coordination and common defense.  The Articles of Assembly were signed later that year, and designated the Belt as the capital of the new federation. Blair Rock was renamed Capital and is the home of the Assembly goverment.  In the past 600 years, Carrill has grown from that sleepy backwater into one of the most populous and powerful systems
of the Assembly.

The Assembly has been a stablizing influence on the trailing half of the Deep for over 500 years.  Throughout most of that time the
Assembly has concentrated on fostering trade and progress in the region, has seldom acted outside its borders, nor has it sought to greatly expand its sphere of influence.

In the 1090's the Progressive Party came under the control of a clique of young turks that began to agitate for the expansion of the Assembly into surrounding territories.  An attempted coup by young naval officers in 1103 was supressed, but only after President Collin had been assassinated. Temporary martial law was declared and Admiral Juzark took control of Capital.

During this crisis, a compromise agreement among the Navy, the Conservative Party and the Progressive Party was worked out whereby Admiral Juzark stepped down and High Justice Daldreem, Chief Justice of the Assembly Supreme Court, was put into power as Assembly President.  It was expected that Daldreem would quickly take the Assembly back to a representative democracy, but that has not happened.

Daldreem has proven to be a charismatic, but ruthless, leader who, under various constitutional pretexts has extended the state of martial law through the present.  Daldreem has embarked on a campaign of expansion, popular with the Progessive Party, and is centralizing Assembly authority, popular with the Conservative Pary. Although the Liberal and Alaltin Democarats protested
Daldreem's policies vigorously in the beginning they have mostly been silenced. Today, Daldreem and his cronies dominate the
Assembly government completely.

^^^^

Carellines LLC

A ruthless and aggressive trading firm well known for its determination to turn a profit, no matter what the legality or cost in human or ethical terms. Though their operations often border on piracy, the loose political structure of the Reavers' Deep has allowed them to continue thriving.  The company is owned and operated by Carrillian Assembly.

^^^^

Celestial League

This is the precursor state to the Union of Harmony. It consists of a number of worlds in the Uhtaa and Earle subsectors. It was settled by Solomani of Chinese ancestry in the 21st Century PI. The League maintained jump capacity throughout the Long Night and was an occasional source of Reaver fleets for most of that time. Constant low-level conflict with the neighbouring Aslans kept the league united until the Peace of Ftahalr relieved the pressure. The League were shattered by internal conflict shortly thereafter, and its former member worlds were plagued by internecine warfare for centuries afterwards, until they were again brought together as the Union of Harmony in 856.

^^^^

Church of the Future Man

A small church, the 'Effems' believe that the destiny of humaniti is self-ordained, that technologies that influence evolution, such as genetic engineering, are desirable technologies and should be used to create the 'Ultimate Man'. Believing in the eventual (and in their opinion, inevitable) union of organics with cybernetics, the Effems are considered to be somewhat harmless nutcases, however several of their members are at the forefront of cybernetic, cyborganic, medical, and computer research. Originating from the Magyar Sector of the Solomani Rim, they were driven out due to their complete disinterest in politics other than as a tool to further human evolution. 

^^^^

Confederacy of Duncinae

The Confederacy of Duncinae was founded by refugees from the First Civil War (309 to 328) in the Principality of Caledon.  It has since re-established close relations with the mother nation and enjoys cultural and economic ties that benefit both.  The Confederacy is ruled as a loose hegemony of states where individual freedoms are highly valued, where conditions permit, and local governments enjoy considerable independence.  The capital at Duncinae (Reaver's Deep 1624) rules over seven other worlds in the Ea and Drexilthar Subsectors. 
  Currently tensions are running high between the Grand Duchy of Marlheim snf the Confederacy due to the MacBeth Affair.  Roger Vane, the former ambassador to Marlheim (Reaver's Deep 1230) is expected to win the election as President of the Confederacy Council. He is expected to take a much stronger stance with regard to relations with the Grand Duchy than the current administration.

^^^^

Crash Jura

The site of a twisted remains of a very old starship believed to have belonged to the Saie.  The ship is considered highly valuable due to it incorporating features of early jump technology.  Located on the high plateau of Jura, on Glenshiel (Reaver's Deep 1912) the site has attracted a large contingent of archaeologists and historians interested in the Saie. 
  The work is surrounded by considerable controversy, since Caledonian scientists and Imperial researchers have been clashing over rights of access to the site. The waters have been muddied further by the involvement of an Imperial megacorporation, Makhidkarun, which is attempting to gain access to a few recovered works of art discovered in the ship's hold.  These works of art apparently were plundered from subject races such as the Yn-tsai and the Lhshana.
   Makhidkarun  agents are attempting to obtain the art works in order to reproduce them and put the reproductions on the market.  Charges of unethical conduct have been leveled at Makhidkarun as a result of these efforts.  The starship has since been moved to the Caledon Research Institute on Caledon (Reaver's Deep 1815). 
  One item of particular interest that was found at the site was a shattered crystal key.  It is believed that a key of this sort was used at Saie military bases, such as the one on Doom (Reaver's Deep 2412). 

^^^^

Cross of Andrew

Highest award of the Caledonian Defense Forces. Roughly equivalent to the Starburst of Extreme Heroism of the Third Imperium. 

^^^^

Ship's Boat
Ship Boat
Shipboat

The ship's boat is designed to perform odd jobs and minor operations for a larger ship.

@@@@shipboat.jpg

^^^^

Survey Ship

400-ton Donosev-class type-SV survey ship, "Donnies," are commonly used by the Imperial Scout Service to explore newly discovered planets or monitor space anomalies and may be assigned to a party of explorer characters. It is an unusual-looking craft in that it is not symmetrical and has strange looking equipment sticking out of it - most notably the large pincher-like densitometer mast and the particle collector notch cut out of the dorsal side. The Donosev can support a crew of 12, up to three anti-grav air/rafts in the vehicle bay, and a 50-ton modular cutter equipped with a lab and habitat module. Because of it's unusual design, it cannot make planetfall and relies on support ships to conduct planetside missions. Although a vehicle of science, some Donosevs are armed with a laser turret for protection in hazardous regions of space. 

@@@@surveyship.jpg

^^^^

Gralyn Assemblage (AKA The Gralyn Union)

The Gralyn Assemblage is a small interstellar state in the Drinsaar Subsector.  There are 6 states in the Assemblage Gralyn (1735), an Aslan enclave on Gralyn, the Droyne occupied moon Askoapoy in the Gralyn system, former colony Botany Bay (1734), and The Kursk Republic, one of the independent nations on Khtearle, (1733).  The Assemblage is also a member of the Aikhiy Development Trust which controls the Aikhiy system.

The Assemblage government is a Council of Five, one each from the five factions that make up the Assemblage.  Under the Council is  an impersonal bureaucracy made up mostly of humans which runs the government from day to day.

The Assemblage was formed in the latter days of the Long Night (-312) when the Droyne on Askoapoy and the humans on Gralyn "assembled" their resources to defend the system from maraunding reavers.  The association remained limited until the Aslan invasions of the Deep when an Aslan enclave was formed on Gralyn and the three groups combined to defend the system against further incursions. Botany Bay was added, first as a protectorate then as a full mumber, when, after the Solomani Rim War, the corporation running that  colony abandoned the colonists. 

The Grayln Assemblage is situated on the Drinsaar Main and benefits from legal and illegal trade travelling along this 20 world jump-1 main.  To trailing are the large population systems of Rintarna and Lanixon and to spinward are Himalaya, Soloman, and Venice, and most of the trade between those worlds travels through the Assemblage.

The Aikhiy Development Trust is a joint project between the Gralyn Assemblage and the independent world of Venice.  The Trust's mission is to develop Aikhiy as an agricultural world supplying food stuffs to both of the trustees and for sale to surrounding systems.  It is no secret that it is also an opening overture toward enticeing Venice into joining the Assemblage.

^^^^
