Special Collections

The Travellers' Aid Society maintains a Special Collections Library available to select Members who demonstrate secrecy and discretion.  Members may contribute to the collection through special content review.


^^^^

Leenitakot

Leenitakot system, located in the Kandra subsector of the Hinterworlds sector, has the remains of a ringworld. The Ancients are thought to have built the unfinished Ringworld around -310,000.

^^^^

Black Hole

Known locations:
627-301 in the Gazulin subsector of the Trojan Reach sector.
Shadowsand in the Inverness subsector of the Far Frontiers sector.

^^^^

Bradeeva

Rumors exist that the Imperial Navy recovered an entire Ancient starship, the Bradeeva, floating derelict in space between two solar systems in the Massilia Sector. These recurring rumours are not consistent in precisely which solar systems were involved, or in exactly when this find was made. 

In 806, the principal Geonee ambassador to the Imperium, Duke Valreega Neowashee, sued the Imperial Navy in a fruitless attempt to reclaim the vessel as Geonee property. A special commission established by the Imperial Moot determined that there was no truth to the rumors and closed the case. 

^^^^

Mikhail

Located in the Kourae Subsector of Empty Quarter Sector.

Unsubstantiated rumors of a lost Ancient site hidden under the thick clouds of Mikhail’s insidious atmosphere continue to draw questers from parsecs away to launch fruitless expeditions to the planet's surface. 

Although evidence has been found that suggests the world was inhabited more than 50,000 years ago, no great discoveries or working technology seems to have survived the destructive effects of the planet's atmosphere to the modern day. 

That doesn't prevent adventurers, thrill-seekers and misguided treasure hunters from making attempts to map and explore the world's surface in search for the so-called Vault of the Lost Ones, named for the subject of an old Vargr spacer's ballad that has been passed down through the generations. 

The song tells the sad story of a spacer who lost his crew within a vault of wondrous technology after a misjump brought their vessel to the world.

^^^^

Muriisdi

Helpful angelic beings of Vilani myth. Often they are confused with angelic beings or 'Elohim' of Terran Middle Eastern origin, but in reality they are more down to earth than those. Where the former are supernatural beings of oftentimes terrible divine power, the Muriisdi are more like supernatural good citizens. They are more similiar to the Solomani Japanese 'Tenshi', beings who interact directly with human communities and intervene daily through propitious fortune. Because of the horrible depredations inflicted by the Arkidgi, Vilani religious and folk tradition tend to emphasize communal deeds rather than supernatural powers. Muriisdi are usually depicted as thin whispery spirits with soulful eyes, elfin ears and beak like noses. They lack mouths as they feed vicariously off of their good deeds. They have long bony hands and misshapen feet, though in reality they are usually depicted with no locomotive features at all, and appear rooted to a shadow or dark corner. While ancient folk beliefs tend to embarrass Vilani elders, Muriisdi stories are a common rite of passage for their children, and artworks and prayers commemorating their good deeds are commonly found in traditional Vilani households.

^^^^

Blackjack Duquesne

"Blackjack" Duquesne is an infamous Reaver from the –1120 to –1100 period. 

Although many worlds have traditional stories and folktales of Blackjack and his starship Skylark Duquesne, surprisingly little historical information is known about this Reaver.
One rumor was that he was the result of an experimental clone family. He had been a candidate for a Mykin clone regiment and was rejected for psychological reasons. A certain mega-corporation had been hired to provide vast numbers of troops with few questions asked. If true, this could explain the number of years over which he seemed to operate and the number of times "witnesses" had sightings of him in different locations parsecs apart.

For a brief period of time his corsair fleet included two Habari Class Raiders. Legend is they were intercepted and shot down over a small barren gas giant moon loaded with a precious cargo.

^^^^

Giirkha Girgi

Giirkha Girgi is the protagonist of an old Vilani folk-tale about a foolish wanderer who found and entered an enchanted castle where he slept for ten kargukula (roughly 130 years). Upon awakening and returning to his village, Girgi finds his young fiancé grown old and on her deathbed surrounded by five generations of her descendants that could have been his if he had not been so foolhardy. 

Girgi has become a Vilani term for a winkle. 

The story is similar to a Solomani folk-tale about one Rip Van Winkle who falls into an enchanted sleep only to awaken many years later to find the world has changed. 

^^^^

Aki

The semi-legendary sword of the Vilani warrior-king Golosh.

^^^^

Daaluusinnagi

A legendary Vilani hero, called the Defender, and wielder of the sword Igliim.

^^^^

Maashdikhe

A legendary Vilani hero, the protagonist of a set of folk tales. When his village is threatened by a demon, he procures a magic sword, Danuuz (Anglic: Danuuz), and defeats the demon.

^^^^

Yaskoydray

Translation of Grandfather
A mythic figure in Droyne society, a savior who has visited many of the Droyne worlds bringing culture and new knowledge.

^^^^

Bradley Barrier

Located at Bradley in the Dagudashaag sector.
Its main claim to fame are the events of 993 which gave rise to the legend of the "Bradley Barrier". Late that year, the system's primary star SK-433677m, began producing an unusual, extremely regular sequence of flares. This lasted for two weeks and had no effect on stations in system as they were adequately shielded. It did, however, affect traffic arriving. 

Of the four vessels which jumped in-system during that time, one emerged into normal space with extensive thermal damage, its crew critically ill from Jump sickness. Two others re-emerged as thousand-tonne slugs of molten metal. The only undamaged vessel was a naval transport. 

The Navy attempted to cover up the incident but media agencies rapidly picked up on the story. Speculation was rife. Some reported that the injured crew claimed to have been attacked by “monsters in jumpspace”. The most popular theory was that the Navy had been testing an Ancient hyper spatial weapon, powered by the system’s primary star. The Navy kept a wary silence but eventually released a statement pointing out that all the affected ship's had been manufactured by GSbAG, which had reportedly been suffering reliability problems with jump drive integration at that time. 

As of yet, the strange flare sequence has not recurred. 

^^^^

Ghost Fleet

Name given to the recorded phenomenon of historical transponder readings being received by current day shipping. The transponder signals have been corroborated as genuine and, to date, no logical explanation has been forthcoming as to their origin. In each case the signals have been from ships lost during the Pact Empire. 

Until 1110 the triangle of space created by Medurma, Dipa and Nexus was not even legend. Then on 12-1110 a merchant vessel, the Dawn Trader, filed a report with the Medurman University. While preparing to Jump out of the Dipa system the navigator spotted a bright reflection in space. Instantly he leapt to the controls as he knew that such a reflection could only come from a ship, yet all his sensors showed clear space. Thinking his equipment had malfunctioned, he radioed his position to the ship. There was no reply. He admits his next thought was that it had to be a pirate but, seconds later, he received a transponder transmission. The ship then vanished. 

On analysis, the transponder reading proved to have originated on a Medurman Pact ship which vanished in -35. The whole exchange was recorded. The Dawn Trader's sensors were in full working order. There was no ship. Yet the recorder dearly received the phantom transmission. 

Over the next two years, three other incidents occurred. In each case crew members (and in one well-documented case, the entire crew and passengers) swear they saw what had to be a starship, yet nothing showed on any sensor. Moments later a phantom transponder transmission is recorded. Each time a different ship. Each is of a Pact naval vessel lost between -100 and -25. Each was recorded destroyed while in either the Medurma, Dipa or Nexus systems. 

No solid explanation for transmissions or the ships has been put forth. The Triangle remains another unsolved mystery. 

^^^^

Abyss Rift

The Abyss Rift is an area of space within the Lanth Subsector with a curious anomaly.
It has been the site of several notable ship disappearances over the last half-millennium and has built up a substantial amount of lore associated with them. 

Curious jump-related phenomena have been reported in the rift for centuries, often by reliable witnesses. 
Scouts plying the x-boat rout report events such as receiving radio signals in jump-space to reports of "someone on the hull, trying to get in". 

Some Terran observers have called the Abyss Rift the "Bermuda Triangle" of the Spinward Marches sector. 
Experts have expressed extreme incredulity at these claims.Only seven systems lie within the Abyss' boundaries. 

The presence of three Red Zone worlds in the rift is taken as further evidence by locals that the rift is a bad place where strange and awful things happen.  The worlds are Victoria, Ylavin and Sonthert.  Some believe that the anomaly is centered around astrographic hex coordinates #1917.

^^^^
