Mire

Capital of Darrian Confederation.  One of the Confederation worlds, Mire has become an underground world, which allows the surface to be used for agriculture and natural preserves.  Government is a major industry on Mire.  Bureaucrats and military personnel are to be found virtually everywhere.  Most of the large corporations keep offices here.


History of Mire
 Mire was founded in the early days of the pre-Maghiz Confederation, and was the first colony that was attempted.  It was chosen because of its increadibly friendly environment which was amazingly similar to that of Daryen.  Among the first colonists were a large contingent of sentient Dolphins that had accompanied the Solomani when they settled on Daryen. 
Even at its founding, the populace was focused on environmental concerns, trying to live the lessons learned on Daryen.  While the colonists of Rore were focussed on living an ecologically friendly lifestyle by avoiding technology, the colonists of Mire wanted to live in an ecologically friendly manner while enjoying the benefits of technology. As a result of this, the majority of each population center created by the colonists were underground. 

These underground structures were not closed, small spaces, but large, open spaces.  They were directly connected to the surface allowing a natural ventilation process. 

The government of Mire original was a feudal technocracy (like Daryen), but all of the beauracracy needed to run the rules and regulations that surrounded its ecological efforts caused it to quickly migrate to an impersonal beauracracy.  Despite the change, the underlying structure was still that of the old feudal technocracy. 

Mire was founded as an agricultural colony.  However, because of its wonderful ecosphere, it reputation as a beautiful world caused it to become a popular destination for immigrants.  Because of this, its population quickly grew to the point where it had a population of over a billion people. 

While all of the other Daryen colonies operated as true, subject colonies, Mire was the only one to see its status rise to the point where Mire was directly represented in the Daryen government.  No other colony had such representation because no other colony had reached the size or influence necessary for that to occur. 

Also, as a result of this, Mire was just as technologically sophisticated as Daryen.  Because of the overall ecological restrictions, the technology was not obvious, Mire truly was also a TL G world along with Daryen. 

After the Maghiz, the immediate colonies around Daryen did get advanced warning.  All of the colonies used the warning as wisely as possible and tried to protect all of their sensitive equipment.  Unfortunately for Mire, they were just too close to the epicenter of the disaster. 

The Maghiz effects still destroyed 99% of all electronics, computer and gravitic devices.  Unlike on Daryen where vehicles and even entire cities came falling out of the sky, Mire suffered no such widespread devistation.  Another advantage Mire had is that sinces its underground cities were open systems, the systems failures caused almost no loss of life.  The people of Mire were still alive, they just had no electronics. 

Then things got ugly.  Despite the ironic fact that Mire was originally an agricultural colony, it had no way to feed its people.  Mire was as technologically dependent as Daryen, and without that technology they had no way to run their agricultural systems.  So, while Daryen's fate was an immediate catastrophe, Mire's fate was long and lingering suffering. 

The initial phases of the recovery were hellish and brutal.  Most people just couldn't understand how they were starving in a veritable garden.  Many people lost their lives in the sudden violence caused by the fight over the scarse resources.  Many more people would have lost their lives in the fight over food if the Dolphins did not come to their aid.  The Dolphins were able to help the humans harvest food from the seas and the people of Mire were able to overcome the famine in a much shorter period of time that they otherwise would have. 

It took over a decade for order to be restored and another century before Mire was able to reconstitute a world government.  The new government was just a pure beauracracy with no traces of the old technocracy. 

Once the famine was conquered and order was restored, Mire began to work to regain the lost technology.  Despite their horrible beginning, they were in a much better position that Daryen as they still had the majority of their population and its base of knowledge and plenty of undestroyed (but unworking) artifacts to work from. 

The pace of progress was still slow as they were not willing to completely forsake their ecological heritage.  Mire was determined to regain the technology without pillaging their world.  And, they eventually succeeded. 

The regained TL 8 -438 and began reexploring their solar system.  One direct result of this was the recolonization of Rydem.  By -265 they had reached TL A and rediscovered jump drive.  Once they rediscovered jump drive they quickly began making a small fleet to recontact the other colonies. 

After making contact, Mire quickly organized the Daryen Group.  It was a loose affiliation of the former Daryen colonies directly run by Mire.  It was not a true government, but more of a outreach program of the Mire government.  The program took on attributes of a true interstellar government over time, but was still completely run by Mire.  All of the surviving former colonies were brought together under the banner of the Daryen Group, except for Zamine and Entrope who were too far away to be formally included. 

Mire used the Daryen Group organization to try and help the other colonies recover.  While some, like Jacent, quickly took to the efforts and made great technological gains.  Others, like Laberv and Condaria, resented Mire's paternalistic approach and didn't make much progress at all. 

One side result of the way Mire ran the Daryen Group was that many people who became disenchanted (and sometimes disenfranchised) chose to emigrate to Zamine and Entrope where they felt they could escape Mire's influence.  The Mire government was actually pleased with this result and, many times, would subtly try to encourage such migration. 

Another development was the realization that they were no longer alone.  Instead of being able to explore and discover a vast region of space alone, they now had to deal with two polities: the Zhodani and the Sword Worlds.  While the Zhodani were the greater danger with their psionic powers and immense size, the Sword Worlds were the more immediate concern because of the proximity and bellicose nature.  Fortunately, for the Daryen Group, the Sword Worlds were very fragmented and spent most of their energies fighting amonst themselves. 

That suddenly changed when the Sword Worlds unified for the first time as the Sacnoth Dominate.  Presented with this potential danger, Mire immediately began creating a unified military and started creating military bases.  Significantly, Zbume, which had been left uninhabited up to this point, gains a small outpost and a military base.  Also, the colony world of Nosea is formally added to the Daryen Group and gains a military base, too. 

The Sacnoth Dominate does not last long, but because Mire now knows they can unite at any time, the military of the Daryen Group is maintained and strengthened.  As with the Daryen Group beauracracy, the military command is headquartered at Mire. 

Finally, in 148 contact was made with the Third Imperium.  Realizing the huge potential that trade with the Imperium presented, Mire finally was forced to realized that a true interstellar government was required.  To this end the Darrian Confederation was organized, and is set up as a government completely separate from the government of Mire (though Mire was made the capital of the Confederation as a consolation).  All of the worlds of the Daryen Group join, as well as Trifuge, Terant 340, Zamine and Nonym. 

As a result of having most of the world's economy focused on beaucracy, its tech level stagnated. It reached TL B as a result of the military buildup prior to the founding of the Darrian Confederation.  Since then, however, it has not progressed for over a thousand years. 

A result of this was that all military ship building and much of the high-end private ship building migrated to the shipyards at Jacent and Daryen.  Mire's shipyard was relegated to mass-produced, less lucrative private and commercial craft. 
 
 

Present
As the capital of the Darrian Confederation, Mire also houses the vast Confederation government.  The two governments manage to stay separated, despite the imense size of both governments and their colocation in Theh'ld, the capital city. 
In addition to the vast underground cities, there are some smaller "sky" cities, and an orbital city.  Unlike most systems that have a linked "highport" and "downport", Mire has its main starport (and shipyard) in the orbital city.  The other major cities planetside only have "downport" style facilities.  

Recently Mire has roused itself from its technological stupor and has been making progress in advancing its technology.  Steady progress has been made and it should qualify for TL C within the decade.  It is hoped that by making these improvements their starport will gain more high-end commercial business. 

While the command structure of the naval base resides in Theh'ld, the operational portion (and majority) of the base actually resides on Esse.  Esse was chosen because of its isolation in the system, and the ready availability of fuel (in the form of its ice "oceans").  The population listed for Esse are actually dependents and support staff for the naval base;  there is no true civilian population on Esse.
 
 

History of Rydem
 Rydem was mostly ignored during the pre-Maghiz Confederation.  The small colony that had been established prior to the Maghiz was shut down and evacuated after the Maghiz, and all of the colonists returned to Mire. 
Once Mire recovered to tech level 8 in -438, they began reexploring their own solar system.  A result of that was the recolonization of Rydem. 

The government of Rydem is technically listed as that of a colony, it operates as a "province" or "state" of Mire.  As such, it is ruled by its own council, which also operates as a "local council" of the Mire political structure.  While it is adequately represented within the Mire planetary government, it is completely absent from the Confederation government, despite the fact that, if counted on its own, it would be the sixth most populous planet in the entire Confederation. 

As on Mire, most of the population lives in underground cities, leaving the vast majority of the surface open to wildlife preserves and to cultivation.  In addition, there is a single "sky" city which moves around the equator.  The temporate zone around the equator is reserved for agricultural use, while the rest of the planet is almost entirely left in its "wild" state.


Image of an air raft landing pad at a downport:

@@@@mire.jpg

