Nirton

An Imperial Navy Interdiction Beacon message and history data are there.  Because of the dangerously chaotic star, no one settled here or refuels here.

Nirton is a ‘dead world’ that has no atmosphere or water, but possesses extensive radioactive and heavy metal deposits that were discovered during the first comprehensive IISS survey of District 268 in the early 500s. In order to deny these to the Sword Worlds after the 2nd Frontier War, the Imperial authorities declared Nirton a strategic mineral reserve in 621, and interdicted the system to prevent unauthorized prospecting. This classification is honored by all of the non-aligned and Imperial-client systems in District 268, since the Imperium did not claimed ownership of Nirton, and promised to share its mineral resources equally with all of them. Moreover, the Imperial government made a commitment to supply the financing that will be necessary to build starport facilities when the day comes to exploit the planet’s mineral bounty. 

Ships jumping into Norton may refuel at the gas giant that is the system’s only other planet. However, beacon satellites in the outer reaches of the system constantly broadcast a warning that attempting to land on Nirton or its moon, Tedehan, is an Imperial offense that can lead to the confiscation of the offending ship and long prison terms for its crew. Landings on other moons and asteroids are allowed, but no settlements may be established on them. 

The only habitation in the entire Nirton system is a small Imperial Navy observation post on Tedehan that monitors a network of interdiction satellites orbiting Nirton. This facility evidently possesses ground-based space defense capabilities, since ships that approach Tedehan itself too closely receive warnings to turn back or be fired upon. There is no recorded instance in which a ship was actually fired upon, but it is possible that the Imperial Navy has withheld the details of such events. Frequently a small Imperial warship, generally a patrol cruiser or a Gazelle-class close escort, will be present either in the vicinity of the planet or Tedehan. 

Image of the Imperial Navy post on Nirton's moon, Tedehan.

@@@@nirton.jpg
