Motmos

Motmos was colonized just 14 years after the first full IISS survey of the system was completed in 502. The original 400-plus settlers all belonged to a tiny “back-to-basics” social movement known as the ‘Separatists’ that had recently emerged in the Mora Subsector. Separatist philosophy, which valued the preservation of natural ecosystems above all else, taught that sophonts should live ‘on the land’, raise their own food, and limit industrial and technological development to the minimum necessary to sustain a “modern” civilization. The colonists accordingly created a society based on self-sufficient farming communities, and deliberately “froze” their technology at TL-5 (pre-nuclear, pre-computer, pre-spacefaring), with a strong bias in favor of ‘environmentally friendly’ technologies. They also enacted strict environmental protection laws, prohibited virtually all weapons, and placed severe limits on further immigration. 

The  7,000,000 inhabitants of Motmos are scattered about  one  of the  two major land masses in small villages, linked by telephone  and telegraph.  There is only one city with a population of over  500,000, the  seaport  of New Bryton.  The planetary starport, located  at  New Bryton, is run under contract by the OutReach corporation of  Collace.  The  main  export is foodstuffs, although there is some  gold  mining.  Imports  are  subject to a 45% sales tax unless payment  is  taken  in local goods.  The government is fairly restrictive, and civil  service positions are almost always hereditary. -Rob Dean (robdean@access.digex.net)

Motmos’ economy revolves around agriculture, and it exports a wide variety of foodstuffs throughout District 268. All manner of crops and livestock flourish on the shores of the lakes and seas in the in the equatorial zone, though inland regions tend to be rocky deserts that blend back into craggy mountains. However, some of the best cereal crops are grown in the temperate zones, where the heavily-forested mountain foothills yield excellent lumber. The planet possesses all of the mineral resources required for the development of an industrial economy, but the inhabitants have deliberately chosen not to exploit them. Moreover, in keeping with Separatist philosophy, primitive telephone and telegraph networks provide the only means of long-distance communication, and transport technology is limited to electric-powered trains and automobiles, sailing vessels with auxiliary steam propulsion, and a handful of propeller-driven aircraft. 

The planet is governed by a civil service bureaucracy whose members are selected by competitive examinations that test both their technical skills and their knowledge of Separatist principles. In order to uphold those principles, the government strictly regulates almost every aspect of daily life. Whether its aim is to prevent environmental damage, halt the introduction of prohibited technologies, control population growth, or merely to ensure that Motmos’ exacting agricultural quality control standards are met, the bureaucracy rigidly and inflexibly enforces thousands of pages of highly-detailed rules and regulations. This necessitates a pervasive system of administration and law enforcement that employs large numbers of police and junior bureaucrats distributed in even the smallest settlements. Since many agencies have responsibilities that overlap in confusing and unpredictable ways, navigating one’s way through Motmos’ labyrinthine bureaucracy can be a tedious and highly frustrating experience. The inhabitants do not find this oppressive because they have been inculcated in the doctrines of Separatism since birth. 

In 780, Motmos, Tarsus, and Tarkine formed the Ag Worlds Combine, a loose cartel that was designed to halt a spiral of mutually-destructive price competition in the lucrative agricultural export markets of Forine and Collace. It supplies food to much of District 268, which includes many systems (Trexalon, Singer, etc.) whose inhospitable and/or degraded environments made it difficult for them to feed their populations. The Ag Worlds Combine’s headquarters is located on Motmos just outside of Kinnipac. 

After Dallia briefly seized control of Tarkine in 840 in order to resolve its food supply problems, the Agworld Ag Worlds Combine became focused on presenting a common front against any future aggression. Since all three members were greatly inferior to any potential aggressor in both population and technology, they resolved to use their control of much of the subsector’s food as a weapon. The Combine accordingly made it known that if one of its members was threatened or invaded, the others would embargo all food exports to the offending system(s). Although the Ag Worlds Combine still technically exists, it was seriously undermined when the Imperium invaded Tarkine in 960 and forcibly replaced its government - which had been covertly backing corsair activity. 

Tacking swiftly to catch the shifting winds, Motmos then sought the Imperium’s protection against its more powerful, but food-poor, neighbors. In 963 it officially became a client state and allowed the establishment of an Imperial navy base in the system four years later. The naval base includes a dirtside facility that is located directly adjacent to Kinnipac Starport, a large orbital repair yard/fuel refinery, and smaller facilities (training sites, supply and ammunition depots, early warning stations, etc.) located on half a dozen other lunar and planetary surfaces throughout the Motmos system. The Motmosians themselves are committed pacifists and maintain no armed forces of any kind. 

Image of a typical farmhouse on Motmos.

@@@@motmos.jpg
