Ficant

Ficant is a low technology backwater that quietly gets on with it's own business. It is a world of little note except that the Northern of the two continents is given over entirely to an Imperial xenolife park. The park (Kerutsi Park) was created for studying the remarkably earthlike fauna and flora indigenous to the area. Permits are required for entry to the park and a "no fly zone" above the park is enforced by the Imperial Scout service.

Ficant's indigenous life has only developed to a primitive state. As might be expected, life on Ficant originated in the seas and they now posses a rich variety of life forms. However, the "invasion" of the land has only just begun and Ficant has few native land animals other than invertebrates. Much of the planet's landmass is covered by massive bogs and swamps of tree sized spore propagating plants (similar to terrestrial club-mosses, ferns and horsetails). Forests of primitive seeding trees dominate the remainder. It is expected that the world's combination of low gravity and high atmospheric pressure will lead to the evolution of a wide variety of aerial life, but as yet only a few species have taken to the air (mostly invertebrates). This combination of low gravity and high pressure has also lead to the evolution of a number of triphibian creatures. 

Ficant's swamps and bogs teem with life. The wetlands are covered in a thick layer of rich decaying organic material and support a vast array of creatures; ranging from tiny invertebrates to massive amphibians such as the Arngalds. This dense organic soup also produces a number of valuable chemical compounds and provides the planet's sole source of off-world income. Much of the world remains unexplored and only a tiny hand-full of Ficant's creatures have yet been classified.

Despite the scarcity of large land animals, Ficant's has a diverse range of amphibian creatures, some of which grow to quite respectable size. Many of these amphibians are aggressive carnivores and travel through these areas can be quite hazardous. The largest thus far discovered is the Svensson's Arngald. This creature can grow up to 18 meters in length and mass over 300 kilograms and has no hesitation in attacking humans.

In addition to its native flora and fauna, several species of off-world plants and animals have been introduced (either deliberately or by accident). These off-world species have thrived on Ficant and indeed are replacing many native species around the areas of human settlement. Recently Ficant's Governing Council introduced strict control on the importation of off-world life forms in an attempt to protect the native ecosystem.

The native of the system are all dark skinned and shorter than average. They have a very cheerful outlook on life and are generally friendly. The only other feature in the system is round Ficant's far companion where a small, high tech hermitage has grown up over years due to it's isolated location.

Image of Kerutsi Park Preserve.

@@@@ficant.jpg
