Efate 

IISS operates an Ancient site, stripped of any useful items, as a historic site.  Restorations of the site show a gridwork of thousands of walls spaced about two meters apart, and punctuated by extremely massive bulwarks at random intervals.

Down Franklin Starport. The northern continent is named Kormoron. 

All land on Efate is in a single, equatorial, landmass, known as Mainland, with leading and trail archipelagos. There are two small polar landmasses but these are covered with permanent ice cap and entirely uninhabited.

The two vast oceans, Merric to the North and Assic to the South, are cluttered with large algal mats. The spores given off by these mats are the cause of the atmosphere’s unusual taint, and are responsible for the green hue in the skies in morning and evening. Inhaling these spores causes a swelling of the throat and vocal chords making speech impossible. The local populace has developed immunity to the spore’s effect but not without lasting effect on the culture. Visitors are force to wear masks or take short-term jabs.
The vast majority of Efate’s population is concentrated in two vast cities at the Eastern and Western edges of Mainland. They are both cramped and lawless places and breeding grounds for squalor and crime once outside the central areas. Few people live on the archipelagos and small nomadic tribes live on the algal mats.
Socially, Efate is not a happy place. There is almost always some form of civil disorder or unrest occurring in one of the cities. More often than not this has anti Imperial undertones, usually sparked by the ruling nobility who govern with little or no heed to the masses from behind armoured estate walls. This situation is further exacerbated by the Scout and Naval bases in the system, from which emanate bands of servicemen on leave causing trouble the pubs and clubs. These are both seen by the population as being representatives of the Imperium.
Large amounts of space traffic goes through the system as it is the only jump point to the Jewell subsector. However, due to the lawless and dangerous nature of the surface and atmosphere, the majority of this is conducted through two large orbital facilities.


Picture of ruins on Efate:

@@@@efateruins.jpg
