Arba

During the opening assault of the Fifth Frontier War Arba was captured by the Gram Fleet of the Sword Worlds Confederation as part of an invasion of the Lanth Subsector. By 180-1109 Arba had been retaken by Imperial forces assigned to the 100th Fleet, which occupied the system for the remainder of the war. 

History
-------
The first permenant residents were a group of prospectors from Sacnoth, who arrived in -187.  They did not land on Arba itself; rather, they set up a small refueling and mining station in Hagar's belt.This installation would eventually form the basis of the Sword World claim to the Arba system. It was a very tiny claim, however; when the first Imperial Scouts arrived in Arba in 112 sensor scans failed to detect  any presence in the belt. While some have speculated that the Sacnoth station deliberately hid themselves to avoid detection, most observers have pointed out that a lot of details were missing in the original survey of the system. Indeed, the initial survey conducted by the IISS Algol failed to detect the presence of Ibrahims satellite worldlets Anapy and Glioma [There is some conjecture that the two worldlets were captured by Ibrahim after the initial survey. However, most scientists generally regarded the work of the initial survey team as sloppy].

After years of reports from Imperial traders, the Scout Service sent another expedition to Arba, this coinciding with the undertaking of the First Survey. The commander of the IISS survey team, a rather flamboyant character by the name of  "Torack the Searcher", recognizing both the astropolitical significance of the Arba system and confirming the existence of the Sacnoth station, immediately laid claim to the system by planting the Imperial flag on Arba and Ibrahim. The legal claim would thus rest on the Imperiums control of the main planet in the systems life zone [Arba] and the largest planet in the system [Ibrahim]. To back this claim, Torack left 2 members of the survey team behind with a life boatand 2 laser carbines to "patrol" the system while he jumped outsystem for reinforcements.  While formal integration with the Imperium would not come till much later [515], this action is how the Imperuim gained control of the Arba system.

The first Imperial outpost on Arba, Martinport, was established in 348. Martinports primary function was to serve as a forward sight for Imperial colonization in the Abyss region. Funding and support for the effort dried up  by the 370's, due to extensive colonization efforts by the Imperium in the Chronor and Jewel subsectors. Private colonizing ventures continued, however, though at a much smaller scale. Prospectors and traders also continued to arrive in the area, and by the time of the First Frontier War, Arba had a population of some 2000 sophonts [all of which were in Martinport].

Frontier Wars
-------------
Arba was already involved in a low-level conflict [the age old claim jumper wars that always occur in contested systems] by the time that news of the First Frontier War had arrived. The outbreak of the Frontier War had the effect of organizing  the belters into pro and anti Imperial groups. The former controlled the inner system out to Sarai, the later generally stayed in Hagars belt. This battle of the claim jumpers went on for 2 years, until 591, when a force led by a flight of IISS scout ships and a half a dozen seekers was able to penetrate the Sacnoth Station defenses and destroy the Hagars Point fueling station. This victory would be short lived, however. In 607, the Zhodani Strike Cruiser Zhilqatij arrived in orbit above Arba and dropped two 500 kt gravity bombs on the Martinsport outpost and starport.  The destruction of both outposts effectively reduced the population to a handful by wars end.

Not wanting to be caught with its flank unprotected again, the Imperuim sought to fortify the Abyss region and its approaches. The Imperial Navy set up a small forward base on Arba with fueling facilities and a squadron of fighter craft. The Scout Service set up two listening posts in Hagars Belt to monitor any refueling activity by the Outworlders. The forward base, known as site B,  was used to great effect in the 2nd Frontier War. Outworld Coalition probes into the system were destroyed within hours of their arrival. The fueling base supported naval operations deep in Sword Worlds territory, forcing them on the defensive almost immediately. Site B, along with Imperial facilities at Rabwhar and Wardn provided Admiral Koenigs Fleet with the logistics support it needed to fully prosecute the end of the war with the Sword Worlders.

Site B continued to operate until 804, when the Imperial Navy transfered all assets at the fueling base to the Five Sisters subsector. Facilities which could not be removed were destroyed, with the exception of the landing pads and runway. Site B is now a class E facility, still controled by the Imperial Navy for use as an emergency auxilliary port. Located just inside the dark side line, it is rarely used. The Scout service outposts in Hagars Belt were abandoned in 706.

Ling Standard Products
----------------------
The end of the 2nd Frontier War and the occupation of 12 worlds of the Sacnoth Dominate opened up new opportunities for companies willing to take risks. Ling Standard Products [LSP] became interested in the Arba system as a center of trade between the border worlds and the Imperuim. The initial involvement of the company in Arba came in 622, when the Imperial Navy decided to ask for civilian contractors to build and maintain a starship repair and maintainence facility at Site B. LSP won the bid, and by 625 the facility was operational. It was at this point that LSP decided to construct its own class C starport on Arba. This port was to serve 3 functions:  first, to support mining activities by LSP prospecting ships, secondly, to serve as a trade station for LSP between the Imperuim and the Sword Worlds, and finally to make money from civilian space traffic that would use the port. It seemed like a great idea at the time, and the LSP Regional Management Team gave its blessing to the plan. The Zhi-Ling Starport was completed by 639.

For a time things went well, but eventually a number of events occurred which caused LSP to lose interest in developing the system. The over throw of the Sacnoth Dominate by the Gram Coalition in 698 cut heavily into the trade between the Swords and the Imperium. Prospecting strikes in the Zaibon system forced LSP to move most of its prospecting ships there. The closure of Site B eliminated the major subsidy that kept the Zhi-Ling port profitable. The final blow came in the 900's. The only amount of major traffic through the Arba system prior to the 900's was heading to and from the Abyss region. The construction of the XBoat network and the development of Jump 4 technology left the Zhi-Ling port broke and empty. LSP continued on in Arba until the outbreak of the Third Frontier War in 979. The megacorporation took advantage of a tax law which allowed LSP to reduce the amount of taxes it owed the Imperium by claiming that its facilities in the Arba system had suffered from "enemy action" [there had been very little if any Outworlder activity in Arba during the entire war].

The 'Modern' Era
----------------
Arba was ignored by the Imperuim for almost 50 years after the Third Frontier War. Imperial attention returned in the run up to the Fourth Frontier War. The Ministry of Colonization decided to set up a permanent starport on Arba that would connect the Lanth/Abyss region with Rabwhar, Adabicci and Lunion. This was part of a larger plan to permanently secure the frontier around the Sword Worlds, involving the reconquest of Margesi and Saurus during the Fourth Frontier War and the development of Tavonni by the private sector.

The new starport, Arba down, was established in 1084. It was and is the largest employer in Arba. Other groups arrived as the population increased. They were spurred on by the lack of government control outside the extra-territoriality border of the Arba down port. By 1095, a new settlement, Nimmi Shis, had been built about 10km northwest of Arba down. Both the down port and the settlement recieve support and subsidies from the Ministry of Colonization.


Settlements and locales
-----------------------
On Arba, the only major settlements are the Arba downport and Nimmi Shis. The old naval base at Site B and the old LSP base at Zhi-Ling are little more than dusty landing strips; what was'nt taken by the Navy and LSP was stripped by salvagers. A memorial honoring those lost at Martinsport is currently being built in preparation for the Pentacentennial of the loss of that outpost. A team from Spinward Salvage is currently decontaminating the craters at Martinsport and will be setting up a class E/H-I spaceport there.

The rest of the population in the Arba system are located on two worlds; Hagarstown and Isaak. Isaak is home to a branch of the University of Lanth; the research lab is conducting a long term environmental study of the planet. Hagarstown, located in Hagars Belt, is currently being developed as a permenent trade and maintenance facility for Chaperons Blanc.

Image of the surface of Arba.

@@@@arba.jpg
