Forboldn

The high C02 content of the atmosphere has largely restricted development of Forboldn to the highlands where the concentration is low enough to be tolerable. Though filter masks allow humans to breathe in the lowlands, most people prefer to make their home where they can breathe without artificial aid. Eighty percent of the population lives on the Wueldn Plateau, an area roughly the size of France located in the southern temperate zone, and on other, smaller, high-lying areas. The remaining 20% consists of people with a higher than normal tolerance for C02 who are able to survive at lower altitudes and are spread out across the rest of the planet. On Forboldn, where people for many generations have bred for this trait, it is much more common than usual and many Forboldians can survive C02 levels that would quickly kill a normal, baseline human. This tolerance is distributed evenly along a curve, but Forboldians usually think of it as divided into three discrete levels. Off-worlders have at most one level of C02 tolerance, and that only rarely. Only people from Forboldn and planets with similar atmospheric conditions will have two or three levels. 

The land surface of Forboldn is divided into four regions: The Highlands, where baseline humans can breathe comfortably; the Uplands; the Midlands; and the Lowlands at sea level. To breathe comfortably in the Uplands, one level of C02 tolerance is necessary, in the Midlands two levels are necessary, and in the Lowlands three levels are required. A certain yoga-like breathing technique allows an adept to breathe air one level above his tolerance level as long as he is conscious. 

Forboldn's population is presently undergoing rapid growth due to a large number of immigrants (See Forboldn Project). It was about 3.2 million as of 001-1117. The world is governed by the Forboldn Meliorative Society, LIC. The law level is low and the technology is mostly industrial except for the rapidly expanding capital, Ashar City. This settlement is located 25 km from Forboldn Starport, and is closer to Early Stellar level due to recent massive imports of equipment from Regina. 

Tree Kraken, also known as the land squid, the tree kraken (Hexapoda stren II, H. si/vans) is a 6 kg pouncer native to the planet Forboldn ( Regina / Spinward Marches 1808), but for various reasons has become distributed to many small, low gravity worlds in the Regina (Spinward Marches) and neighbouring subsectors of the Spinward Marches. (See Library Data File for more information).

History
-------
Forboldn was settled in two stages, in 83 by the Asharii, a group of exiles driven from Lishun during one of the Imperial pacification campaigns, and in 141 by the Gugurans, a group of utopians from Dagudashaag with a fake grant to the planet sold them by a swindler. The result was a smoldering brushfire war between the two groups that lasted for five generations. In 234 the Ashari government was recognized by the Emperor as the sole legitimate government of Forboldn and immediately petitioned to join the Imperium. In 250 Forboldn and six other planets in the Regina Cluster was formally admitted. With Imperial aid the so-called Endless War was formally ended in 286, but accidents and mismanagement combined to keep the settlers poor and their technology low. With the pressure of the Endless War removed, the two rival settlements spread out and degenerated into numerous squabbling villages unable to cooperate on anything. Many settlers moved to areas far from their former neighbors, thus spreading the sparse population out across much of the habitable land. The world government soon found it impossible to govern the widely dispersed population and, though never formally dissolved, ceased to function within decades. No Imperial noble was ever appointed for the planet. 

Over the years the distinction between Ashari and Gugurans blurred and became overridden by a general dislike of anybody not belonging to whatever local community one belonged to. From time to time larger political units arose, usually by force of arms, but they never encompassed more than a fraction of the planet and seldom lasted for more than one or two generations. 

In 987 the Ministry of Colonization decided to attempt to utilize the many hectares of prime land not in use on Forboldn. This, however, provoked the locals into reviving the colonial government that had lain crippled for centuries. If the locals could not agree on anything else, they could at least agree that they did not want any outsiders muscling in. 

For many decades the situation remained deadlocked until the ministry in 1089 finally persuaded the locals to allow the formation of the Forboldn Meliorative Society, a company in which they all received stock. The lure was the sizable subsidies promised by the ministry. The cost was an agreement to let in more settlers.

Image of a processing station on the Wueldn Plateau.

@@@@forboldn.jpg
