Whanga was settled twice, first late in the Long Night by Vargr fleeing some war far to coreward in Gvurrdon, then during the 2nd Century by Humans from the Imperium. The two populations didn't get along and eventually spent more time fighting than building their societies, forcing both into slow declines. The Imperium tried in vain to mediate. In 250 the Imperium formally annexed Whanga, put it under protective interdict, and left it to work out its own destiny. 

During the Second Survey, the Humans and Vargr of Whanga were found to have killed each other off. A follow-up expedition confirmed the findings and Whanga was offered up for auction. In 1103 it was sold to Sternmetal Horizons which was supposed to open up the world for colonization. Today, Sternmetal's survey teams have still not finished their preliminary survey, and people are beginning to wonder why. 

Historical Synopsis
-------------------
While Whanga was interdicted from 250 to 1103, the Scouts have conducted several covert surveys of Whanga over the years. The reports were classified until 1104, and have not, due to bureaucratic inertia, been declassified yet. The available information is mostly based on memoirs of individual Scouts. 

History
-------
Whanga was first settled in -120 by the Gaellzirrg, a group of Vargr refugees from a war far to corewards in Gvurrdon. They lost most of their technology, but otherwise thrived and spread out across the river basin that would later be known as the Corazon Basin. 

In 108, a ship from Ephraim/Diaspora arrived carrying 2,900 humans from a country called Rosaria. They used their superior technological knowledge to insinuate themselves with the local leaders and eventually became the effective rulers of a large part of the settled area. 

In 203 came the Night of the Red Fangs. Disgruntled Vargr rebelled against the human-dominated government. Thousands of humans were killed in the outlying districts, but in the cities the rebels were suppressed with great savagery. In the following months impromptu Vargr armies ravaged the countryside and killed all Humans who didn't flee southwards. The humans, in turn, killed tens of thousands of Vargr in the south and expelled many more. When the dust settled, the lower part of the river system was solidly Human and the upper part was solidly Vargr. Between them was a no man's land that they crossed only to attack the other side. 

Unremitting low-level hostilities in the form of raids and reprisals became a feature of Whangan history from then on; not just as a result of ordinary vengefulness, but also because both sides were driven by fear. Humans and Vargr alike were convinced that if one side were to allow the other side to become too strong, the stronger species would eventually exterminate the weaker. So whenever one side grew too prosperous, the other side would feel compelled to attack them and devastate their infrastructure. 

In 235, Imperial envoys came to Whanga to persuade it to join the Imperium. They tried to mediate between Humans and Vargr, but to no avail. Eventually the envoys gave up, and in 250 the Imperium placed Whanga under interdict and left it to work out its own fate. 

In 298, Whanga was formally annexed by the Imperium, but it made no real difference. The world remained interdicted and life on its surface was not affected. 

The above-mentioned pattern of raids and reprisals was broken during two periods known as the First and Second World Peace (585-684 and 783-894) when peace was kept through the Doctrine of Balanced Progress, the principle of keeping Vargr and Human power equal and balanced by the one side who was doing better than the other giving some of its surplus to the other side. It eventually failed in both cases due to disputes over how to calculate and apportion the donations. 

In 981, The Nuclear War broke out. It was fought with conventional weapons, not nuclear bombs, but was so called because it was fought over nuclear secrets. San Ricardo accused Unarzllukhngog of having successfully split the atom and the League of Human Nations demanded the right make sure Unarzllukhngog wasn't building nuclear weapons, a demand that was quickly expanded to making sure no Vargr state was doing so. Unarzllukhngog denied the allegations and refused to open its borders to human inspectors. In 983 an expeditionary force composed of elite units from all the Human League nations struck against Unarzllukhngog and overran its forces, causing much damage and great loss of lives. The expedition had overextended itself, however, and forces from other Vargr nations struck simultaneously from several different directions, cutting off its supply lines and catching it between multiple fires. The Humans states responded by launching diversionary attacks on the closest Vargr states, and the situation quickly turned into a confused free-for-all with very little central control and coordination on either side. 

At this point the Scouts pulled out completely and very little information is available about subsequent events. However, it seems clear that the two sides practically exterminated each other during the next 80 years. 

In 1059, a small Scout expedition surveyed Whanga as part of the Second Survey. They found that less than ten thousand humans and Vargr still survived, huddled in small villages where they eked out a meager living, yet still expended precious energy on traveling hundreds of miles in order to kill each other. The expedition concluded that both populations were in serious decline and that both might well die out in as little as one generation. 

In 1096, a Scout expedition was sent to follow up on the earlier report and found that the natives had indeed become extinct. 

The Scouts reported Whanga empty of native inhabitants and the Imperium auctioned off the rights to colonized it. In 1104 they were sold to Sternmetal Horizons and the interdiction was formally lifted.

Image of a ravaged town.

@@@@whanga.jpg

