OVERNALE

Overnale was first settled around the same time as Glisten, as a support base of sorts for the asteroid miners there.  As is often the case with a new settlement the first colony was built on an island to limit interaction with the local ecology. Thus Griffin Island is the oldest country on the planet.  When the colony was established, Glisten was at tech level 10, and Overnale between tech 4 and tech 5.  The problem that has developed since then is that Glisten has advanced much faster than Overnale leading to the current balance of trade difficulties. The various rulers of Overnale recognize the problem, and trade with Glisten is limited to importing sustainable base technology for transportation, communication and industrialization. Any excess Imperial currency acquired by the sale of agricultural goods at Glisten is reinvested in trade with Aki and Horosho, which supply goods in demand on Overnale but not at Glisten.  Overnale governments are, for the most part, engaged in deliberate slow growth industrialization plans, and are trying fairly successfully to absorb changes into society slowly.

The usual pattern of settlement on Overnale has involved the establishment of an urban/market/manufacture/service center followed by the establishment of large ranches and farms around this hub. Hub-to-hub communication has largely been by ship or rail until recently when the new high speed monorail system was established through Parlek and the Sea League.  Ships have always been armed due to the potential threat posed by sea monsters (36 ton swimming and amphibious killers).

Griffin Island was settled first, followed by the urban hubs now part of the Sea League, followed by Melorn. Parlek established a claim over an enormous tract of then unsettled territory in 963 by paying  off the local governments of Melorn and the Sea League. Much of their territory is still too dry or too remote to be exploited, and they have broken the typical Overnale farm pattern  by establishing plantations run by wage employees.  Most recent immigrants live in Parlek  territory.  There are international treaties covering growth and immigration,  which Parlek is party to, and they are generally viewed as interested and responsible participants in the planet's future.

The remaining countries are fairly closely related. Griffin Island turned down an offer of membership in the Sea League when it was formed in 916 from the city states of the central isthmus. Norland was formed in 978 by ranchers and herders from the Sea League and Melorn who followed the reindeer herds through the northern forest and felt they had more in common with each other than with their central governments.

Overnale/Notorious Products and Resources
-----------------------------------------
Monster  Oil:  This mixture of complex organics is the starting point for a number of convenient synthetic routes for useful drugs. Since monsters have been pretty well hunted out, prices rose to the point where it was cheaper to synthesize the materials.  As a result, the oil can still be sold, but only at a price level comparable to the synthetics, which makes gathering it on a full time basis unprofitable.   Some oil is still harvested as an incidental benefit of sea travel.

Seawood:   Grown only in the Sea League, this material is highly resistant to sea water and was extensively used for the construction  of watercraft hulls.  Wild seawood groves are about logged out and cultivated seawood at higher prices now dominates the market.  Some seawood is  exported,  either as logs or as furniture, and is prized  for its durability and rich dark brown color with lighter streaks and  whorls.  Seawood smoke imparts a pleasant cinnamon-like taste to food, but the wood is now too expensive to burn, and cheap artificial seawood smoke flavoring is manufactured for local consumption.

Fish:   Many varieties of fish are found in Overnale's two seas. The grale of the Sea of Storms is one of the most commonly exported, favored for flavor and nutritional value.  It can be shipped frozen, dried or canned, and occasionally live for gourmet restaurants in nearby  systems. The nutu (new tuna) of the Marak Sea is  a  smaller fish of extremely high food value which finds its way into packaged rations. The stingfish is caught for the toxin, a drug starting material, and the bluefish can be rendered for an oily dye giving a deep blue color to earth-strain cotton.

Pegasus  weapons:  Pegasus Armaments is a growing company in parlek territory  which manufactures a line of highly reliable small arms exported to many or most lower tech worlds in the subsector. They have recently branched out with a line of armored vehicles, still in limited production.  Their highly automated vehicle production facility is a model of flexibility, which, along with a lot ofstandardization of parts, allows profitable production in small runs.

Farm products:  Overnale produces a substantial food surplus which is vigorously exported.  Main products include bulk and processed earth-strain cotton, beans, reindeer meat and  hides, Trinese omnigrain, neorabbit meat and rice.  The value of all of these on a per ton basis is fairly low, so most trade is done within one jump of the Overnale system.

Overnale/Miscellaneous Notes
----------------------------
Kwikbite is a Parlek fast food subsidiary specializing in rabbit products and flavored fried rice cakes. A Kwikbite can be found in any town of 5000 or more inhabitants in Parlek, and in any town of 10000 or more in other countries.

Parlek is notorious as a laissez faire haven, and their data net will provide any information at a price.

TL10 import goods from Horosho are generally available at 2x the usual prices. TL11 goods from New Rome are available at 3x the usual prices, and TL15 goods from Glisten are not generally available, and cost 6x the usual prices and up when they can be found.  (This would include any equipment from the lists rated at TL12-14.)

Dress: Inhabitants of Parlek dress any way they please, with an effect resembling a continuous free form costume party socially. Work 
clothes are the appropriate coveralls etc.  Norlanders wear a lot of fur and leather, weather permitting, often highly decorated. Seamen and aviators favor jumpsuits in all countries.  Formal wear in Melorn, Griffin Island and the Sea League runs to capes and flowing robes in solids and stripes. Daily wear tends toward loose trousers and blouses with decoration at the wrists, neck, and blouse hem. Cold weather gear tends toward quilted jackets with attached hoods. Surplus combat environment suits from New Rome were a big hit when imported a few years ago, and can be often be seen in the Sea League in cold weather. 

Overnale/Specific Locations
---------------------------
Lorton: Population 100,000 (Galt, Tidewell, Mardale, Upperton 15-20 thousand each)

Star Island: Only a few hundred inhabitants, but a temporary city is assembled during the fish harvest season.  Seawood roasted grale Star Island style can be found on restaurant menus.

Bomaris Island:  Owned by the Haksurrons; their country estate. No overflights.

Bastion Island: farmland reverting to wild; cleared to construct the armed forces base and the fusion plant.  The fusion plant was part of Enias Haksurron's industrial development program.

Bastion Island Fusion Plant: Built with local resources by Four Star Power in return for an advantageous tax position.

Tidewell Maritime Research Institute:  Devoted to investigating a variety of issues, from breeding sea monsters in captivity to searching for new uses for old fish to corrosion prevention to studying the ecological impact of the introduction of new forms of marine life from other planets.  Watched closely by the Autarch's political police, as it is a nest of liberal thought.

Seawood Preserve: Seawood is only grown in the league, but has been over cut.  The preserve is logged selectively, and is supposed to be managed to benefit other lifeforms dependent on the wood.

Farms: tend to be large, run by extended families with a good deal of automation.

Political note: Farmers support of government was wavering prior to Griffin Island annexation due to high priority given to military equipment manufacture.  The G.I. factories have since been retooled to provide farm equipment, and support for the government has been increasing.

City States of the Sea League: Lorton (oldest), Surron (home of  rulers),  Port Otto, Enliin, Maraksport (largest), Shelt,  Grace Harbor, Grand Valley (mining center--only inland city state)

Lorton Starport: rather small--12 downside commercial landing spots plus a five spot military base, but fairly new (last upgrade 1098).  Startown is very small as the government does not like the extraterritoriality  agreement.  Parlek Port is bigger, so Lorton employees are very sensitive about remarks about its size.


Travel Cost in the Sea League:
------------------------------
Official Exchange Rate: 1 duchek=Cr0.6
Black Market rate:      1dk=Cr0.35
Air Travel: 1dk/km, 150dk minimum
Monorail: 0.04dk/km, 15dk minimum
Railroad: 0.005dk/km, 5dk minimum

Ground Vehicle rental: 0.25% of the value of the vehicle per day, plus a 2% of value deposit.  Rental agency counters can be found in the main starport terminal building, with vehicle pick-up in the parking/passenger transfer structure.  Possession of a valid driving license required (anyone with Wheeled Vehicle 0+ and a homeworld population of 5+ has one.  Others can pass Simple test (unskilled OK at Routine difficulty) and pay 20dk fee to obtain  license.) Common vehicles include TL7 passenger cars, TL8 Nomad light trucks, and TL10 Whippets and Huskies (value 2x on these).

Grav and Air Vehicles: The Sea league temporarily suspended overflight privileges in 1105, so no grav vehicles may be used unless they are provided with a local air traffic control package (1000dk) and a locally licensed pilot (100dk/day).

Bicycle: basic 120dk, light-weight multigear 360dk.

Overnale/Lorton Starport
------------------------
Security:  The extrality perimeter is patrolled at irregular intervals on both sides of the fence.  ConTech security guards inside sweep in two man vehicle mounted teams, usually  wearing combat environment suits and carrying gauss rifles.  Two rapid response teams with Tiger and  Hydra TL10 grav vehicles are maintained at the ConTech starship facility. Patrol teams are equipped with continuous radio monitors and 'deadman' emergency beepers.  Cooperation with local military forces is adequate, and local response would be rapid in the event of a major threat.

External perimeter patrols are made by three or four man vehicle mounted teams usually including a driver, a machine gunner, and two riflemen. Local military forces include a platoon of TL8 heavy tanks onsite. Grav mounted forces from the Lorton city barracks can be onsite in ten minutes or less. At least one space fighter is usually on the ground at the military space complex.

Per treaty agreement, local forces may enter the extrality area while in hot pursuit of criminals, and persons reasonably accused of violent crimes may be seized after a warning and notification to port authorities. Persons committing property crimes are immune once across the boundary, but may be detained by port authorities if requested by the local government.  Offworld organizations monitor these extraditions carefully to prevent abuses.  The Sea League is too dependent on foreign trade to step too far out of bounds.  The League is required to post a substantial bond in Imperial currency for each extraditee, and it is forfeited if offworld authorities are forced to intervene.  The League has absolutely no jurisdiction over any  offworld citizen who arrives by ship and does not leave the starport area.

Currency Exchange: Official banks will not give credits for ducheks.  Small quantities of credits are exchanged at the 'official' rate, larger quantities heading toward the black market values. Barter trade tends toward the black market rate, but cash trade toward the official rates.  Non Sea League banks do not generally trade in ducheks.

Hotels: 45cr/day, Meeting Rooms 10cr/hour, meals expensive.

ConTech repair facility:  Locally manufactured parts to repair any TL9 systems,  provide temporary hull patches, and so forth, are always available. Higher tech parts for drives and computers are usually available (Routine).  Higher tech parts for weapons and sensors are seldom available (Difficult).  Entire replacement systems must be special ordered from Glisten, payment arranged in advance, with a minimum delay of 20 days.

Shuttles: The port has no shuttle services available.

Interface:  A government agency for facilitating trade and tourism.  Help for a fee.  Licenses, permits, currency exchange.

Bazaar Booth: In addition to maintaining permanent shops, the Interworld Bazaar maintains the Floating Bazaar, up to 25 portable sales booths  including  power  and communication which can  be rented for Cr200/day (or the equivalent in ducheks at the official rate). These are rented by all sorts of people with limited quantities of good to sell. Full customs duties must be paid on anything carried off by locals, of course.  Typical booths might be selling Norland leather and fur coats, hand carved seawood bric-a-brac, offworld music disks and players, scarce wine, live exotic tropical fish, etc.

Interworld Bazaar Shops
-----------------------
Kwikbite Fast Food
Consolidated  Ship Services (Ship chandlers) (A local subsidiary of ConTech partially owned by the League government.)
Macro's Grocery
The Ringed Planet Bar and Grill
Felicia's Fashion Factory
ConTech Offices (Ship repair and port security)
LongJumpers (bar/restaurant frequented by Free Traders)
Jarlan's Catalog Express (Local merchandise within 12-24 hours)
Informex (books, disks, music, computer hardware and software)
ParlekComm (local communications access)
Vacc Suits Unlimited (run by expatriate from Glisten--grav controlled 
to 0-G, so watch your step going in.)
Doc Johnson's Stellar Clinic (with TL15 medibot  back-up. Expensive 
but not nosy)
Vortex Center for the Performing Arts (movies, lectures, live theater, 
concerts, available for rental)
Job Shop (temporary employment office)
Interface (Department of Trade expediters)



Image of the Bastion Island Fusion Plant.

@@@@overnale.jpg

