NEW ROME

Imperial world in the Glisten subsector. New Rome was originally a secondary world in what was at the time called the Bellion System. Forcibly settled in 86 with political exiles from the Imperium, the selection of this unpromising world was dictated by a vindictive Imperial admiral. When Bellion first expanded into space, their neighbors on New Rome were able to provide them with valuable technical assistance and became a privileged part of Bellion society. New Rome prospered and became the site of most of the system's heavy industry. Eventually the majority of the system's population lived on New Rome and the system was accordingly renamed to reflect that. 

Bellion was originally settled by refugees from the fall of the Sindalian Empire. It regressed to pre-industrial technology, but was edging back into TL-6 by the time it was contacted by the Scouts in 54. They placed it under administrative interdict, but around 82 Imperial traders (who were ignoring the interdict) gave Bellion's development a tremendous boost, and in 92 Bellion launched its first interplanetary craft. Contact with the neighbors on New Rome provided another boost, and the first jump-capable vessel stood ready in 98. The interdict was formally lifted three years later. 

Bellion soon became a power in the immediate area, claiming sovereignty over several nearby worlds, notably Aki. The Imperium never accepted these claims, but Bellion's economic and cultural influence on its neighbors was undeniable. In 165 a small task force dispatched by the Duke of Iilidu had to replace Bellion's government with one that was more amenable to reason. The fractious world remained a problem for the Imperium for many years, but eventually a working relationship developed, and in 349 Bellion was declared a 'Friend and Ally of the Imperium'. 43 years later, in 392, it and its economic dependents joined the Imperium en bloc and Bellion became the capital of the newly-created County of Bellion. 

Image of a New Rome city in an icebed.

@@@@newrome.jpg
