Wypoc

The atmosphere of Wypoc is an insidious mix of hydrofluoric, hydrochloric, and sulfuric acids, plus a small amount of prussic acid is also present. Atmospheric pressure at surface is about 2.5atm, and the orangeish haze is ever present, and leads to a notable lack of useful visibility.  The inhabitants live in domed cities they call demes and rarely venture outside. Recently, however, the military (Imperial Marines) has been testing protective suits which will enable personnel to operate in the insidious and freezing atmosphere for long periods. The liquid which passes for an ocean is a rich soup of amino acids, plus some of the acids above. The amino acids and proteins of Wypoc's life, however, are definitely incompatible with H. Sapiens, and also with Vargr, digestive capabilities. This hydrosphere has a major problem for life: most of the proteins are immediately broken apart by one or more of the available acids. 

There is a large marine contingent on the world and the local economy is doing quite well.

There has been some mention in the local media that the Marines have been there longer than one would think necessary to just test vacc suits and none of the suits have been made available to the locals.

Darker areas on the map represent the hydrocarbon oceans whereas the lighter areas are rocky plateaus with sheer sides several hundred metres high.

The population is focused around three public activities, which include: Mining, Orbital manufacture of electronics and Expedition hunting.

Wypoc has become a mecca for jaded individuals desiring a real challenge: The Dragon. These and other dangerous and armored beasts run free and wild, and are known to hunt the hunter. Some have even claimed that air-rafts have been dragon-snacks! The Pen-jooin, the dragon, the bopper, and other large creatures have a thriving ecosystem, and apparently, the predators hunt by metallic ions released by the bodies of their targets. The local creatures are edible, as a general rule, but are not particularly tasty. 


Image of Wypoc dragon being hunted.

@@@@wypoc.jpg
