AKI

Aki was settled from Deneb around 300, and converted to  Aborism, a pervasive religion around 450.  Religion and government remain separate. Offworlders find the planet uncomfortable due to the large population, mostly crowded into large cities, and because of the hostile attitude of Aborites to non-members. This changes rapidly if one converts.  Most cities have large slum areas, and much of the population subsists on church or government doles.  Most imports, with the exception of foodstuffs, are subject to a 10% import duty.  All normal starship servicing fees are doubled, due to a government effort to collect Imperial currency to facilitate offworld activities.  

General Description of Culture: Reactionary-Indifferent, Passive-Neutral, Harmonious-Aloof, Aborism

Unusual Custom:  Parents arrange marriages for children.

Miscellaneous Notes:
Wills--as a result of a number of lawsuits early in the history of the planet in which beneficiaries of wills were declared ineligible because they were not on the planet at the time the will was resolved, current law allows two Imperial Standard years from the time of death to the reading of the will, and this time may not be shortened unless all beneficiaries are present.  In addition, "every effort must be made" to ensure that all beneficiaries are notified.

Airline Rates--Most cities on Aki are served by some sort of scheduled air travel. Rates run about Cr0.1/km, with a minimum price of Cr150. 

First Impressions:
Housing density is fairly high in most cities, cleanliness is fairly low.  General clothing design is loose, colors favored being black, gray, brown, and subdued reds and greens. Certain groups of rebellious youth dress in tight fitting clothing in bright colors (blue, purple, red), and wear their hair very short.  Cuisine is generally vegetarian due to the scarcity of arable land and ethical inclination. Urban windowbox miniature herb gardens are a common sight. Privately owned vehicles in cities are small and scarce.  Large trucks are common for cross country travel. Mass transit systems are available in most cities, but are often run down. - Rob Dean (robdean@access.digex.net)

Image:
One of the various cities on Aki.

@@@@aki.jpg
