Persephone

Persephone has always been noted as just a whistle-stop on the Strouden - Glisten xboat route. Most traders, pre-Collapse and today, have not even bothered to land on Persephone itself. Instead, they merely refulled at the the Gas Giant Demeter (diameter: 84,329 km), which Persephone orbits around.
   
A flotilla of ships and small space stations, greeting the local traveller near Demeter's northern polar regions, glistens like red stars against the planetary tempests below. This flotilla serves a vital purpose for local traffic: providing fuel (both refined and unrefined) and basic repair services, which the small, TL A local starport cannot provide. The flotilla is a transient affair, growing larger as more traffic passes through Persephone, fading away as traffic weakens.
   
There is no organization in the flotilla: each and every ship is a law onto itself. There are a few common characteristics shared by nearly all of the thousand or so ships and stations: they are all registered with nearby Strouden (Lunion: Spinward Marches/2327 A745988-D), never set foot on Persephone itself, and have a running vendetta against the local Persephone System Guard regarding taxes and tarrifs. Although hostilities between the Guard and the flotilla rarely break out into violence, there is a near continual game of hide and seek between them. The Guard strives to record every major transaction while the flotilla conspires to hide "the Big Stuff" from the Guard and their ugly taxes.
   
Approaching Persephone the casual traveller can easily make out the Dam Aspshii, a major sea covering 1/3 of the surface area of Persephone. This circular sea is widely believed to have been the result of either a massive impact crater or the work of the local Keo Neseb civilization.
   
The small size of Persephone Lowport - it can hold the grand total of 1,600 Tdisp worth of craft, total - is fabled thoughout the subsector.  According to legend, a messanger with an Imperial Warrant, waiting to speak to the King himself, was left waiting in orbit for 52 hours as traffic untangled itself. One large merchant, which needed the ENTIRE starport to land, waited for an entire month until finally the port was freed for landing. The fact that the port can only repair ships to TL A does not endear it any more deeply to hard-pressed merchantmen.
   
The current activist monarch, Queen Ashki, is laying plans to expand the starport drastically. Already construction has finally begun on a new starport just outside of the system capital of Ki Didimgamu, finally laying to rest the jokes of a "starport smaller than a Tirken's mouth". (especially since the Moran Tirken doesn't even have a mouth, just a small, noticable pore.)
   
There is NO TRADE LAW on Persephone. This makes for cutthroat trading, indeed. This also makes Persephone The Source for all sorts of goodies you can't find anywhere else in the subsector. It is recommended that only experienced traders visit Persephone's Giilumadgii Trade District, people who know what they're doing.
   
The careful traveller will also note that there are no crystals, ores, or metals mined on Persephone. This is because the old resources were mined out by a long-dead civilization called the Keo Neseb. An insectoid race, looking more like a giant praying mantis than anything else, they originated on Penkwar (Lunion: Spinward Marches/2128), a Red Zone world a parsec from Persephone. They seem to have reached their apex about eight million years ago, and most likely changed Persephone's and Harvosette's atmosphere to its current state. No one knows what has become of them, although a few archeological digs were made on Penkwar.
   
It should be noted here that Galanglic is spoken only to foreigners. Among themselves, Vilani is the common tongue.  The written language is something else entirely! Apparently, their elegant script, using glyphs and symbols to stand for particular ideas, is not related to written Vilani at all. 
   
The locals name for their world is Mudemzalushush, but they call themselves Ushamai (as do their related folks at Harvosette (Lunion: Spinward Marches/2129)). Local cities are not domed archeologies as on most worlds with tainted atmospheres, but rather like a warren of long steel corridors, with houses and public spaces being dome "nodes" connected by one or two corridors. [Incidentally, the airborne taint - which takes about a day of exposure before convulsive vomiting begins, leading eventually to death by dehydration - is exactly the same as on Harvosette, only with greater concentration there.] The domes are always above ground: the corridors may be above or below ground.
   
In private homes, the walls have engravings and are painted with bright abstract patterns. Some of the more traditional people still put up "wood" venners from the local flora. The more wealthy folk buy offworld holographic projectors. In the very few elite homes, the new fashion is to embed the walls with strips of black marble, with white or silver engravings on them.
   
History
---------
The Persephonians first settled here during the 420's, as political/religious refugees from Corridor. Here, they created their society around Gekashiishaa (their political/economic ideology) and Nominolus (their religious beliefs). They prospered and 'kept balance' for centuries until the Second Civil War, when Glisten was lost to the wicked Aslan. The loss of Glisten slashed trade volume through Persephone, striking an economic blow to Persephone that slowly, inevitabily let to the Crisis of '79. Then, the newly coronated Queen saved her crown and Persephone independence from their creditors, at the cost of general living standards. Her expansionist policies have brought Persephone a new spirit of greatness and hope, but most people still have not recovered back to pre-Crash years.
   
Kigiirpaku Limis is the major holy site on Persephone, and home to seven million priests, acloytes, confessors and attendant bureaucrats. Unlike most cities, Kigiirpaku is set in a arological bubble covering the entire city, allowing a freedom of movement hard to find in Persephone cities. An unfortunate side effect, though, is that local temperature control is poor (whether deliberate or not, I don't know), so the heat from the noonday sun realy cooks.
   
The local faith - called "Naminalus", Vilani for Balancing - centres on a triune God, but composed of Time/Space/Energy rather than the Christian conception of Father/Son/Spirit. The goal of the Naminalii Kuk Kusili - a follower of Naminalus, or "Maintainer of the Balance" is to maintain the Balance demanded by God, by keeping the forces of Time, Space and Energy in Balance throughout their life. By doing so, a form of immortality is granted to the believer, being merged with the "Universal Balance" that all life depends on.
   
For a long time, the priests of Naminalus was concerned only with fellow believers on Persephone, Harvosette and Strouden. But now, as the old faith in Gekashiishaa fades away, the Queen - a strong believer - is urging the priesthood to spread the faith, to help restore Balance throughout the Imperium, and eventually - especially - throughout the ex-Imperial Wilds. "Seekers" (Naminalusian missionaries) are now being sent throughout the subsector, and are causing quite a bit of comment, both good and bad.
   
Didimgamu, the capital of Persephone
------------------------------------
An undersea city, set under Une Didimgamu (Lake Didimgamu), it houses 138 million people and is the largest city on Persephone. It is very much a Royal city, proud of it's Vilani heritage. Most prevalant here is the Digamu, the ruling elite of Persephone, and their entourange. One of the most surprising aspects here is the absolute ease that the richly dressed rulers move through the commoners, many without any bodyguards.
   
Giilumadgii, major startown on Persephone
-----------------------------------------
A rather pretty town of 72,000, set in the Aziramam Badlands, a heavily forested, cold region in the southern hemisphere of Persephone. The Persephonians themselves are rather distant from outworlders. 

Image
-----
Image showing the surface of Persephone with Demeter rising in the background.

@@@@persephone.jpg
