Echiste

Echiste has 90% or more of its surface covered in an ocean of water.  It holds the Marches record for greatest number of failed outposts. There doesn't appear to be any reason other than an extraordinary run of ordinary bad luck for the failures. The current planetary development company, Echiste Corporation, LIC, is the eighth in eight centuries to try its luck. 

The second to last attempt to settle Echiste was made in the early 800s by employees of the Societe d'Echiste, which obtained an Imperial exploitation charter in exchange for colonizing the planet. The Societe d'Echiste was founded by Alexandre Dumont, who believed that the Poisson-fue, a large submarine hunter, could be sold as a delicacy on Rhylanor. He was right, and the young Société prospered. 

To convince people to settle on the fledgling world Dumont created a mystique of the frontiersman, drawing heavily on the Norwesters of Terran history and picturing them as heroic explorers. The romance of this vision (and a grant of stock) persuaded enough settlers to immigrate that the colony survived. 

Early overfishing led to a better understanding of Echiste's complex ecology. Echistiens now nurture and guard their stocks as well as hunt them. A generation later, the Dírecteurs of the Societe decided to expand the world's resource base. A project to mine the rich volcanic ores for metals and minerals from the planet's mantle was begun. This plan was carried out until 881, when the vent of Mont Gros exploded, destroying all the young Societe's mining equipment. 

Despite initial successes, the Societe population failed to grow to a level acceptable to the Colonial Office, and in 1113 the Office revoked the Societe's exploitation grant and awarded it to a new company. The Société still has political power, but no longer receives Colonial Office subsidies. Negotiations between the Societe and the new company about how to coexist are underway. 

Recently Oberlindes Lines instituted regular jump-5 passenger service to Rhylanor, and the Scouts are studying the feasibility of making Echiste a link in a new jump-5 X-boat connection between Regina and Rhylanor. The company hopes that increased jump-5 traffic between Regina and Rhylanor will improve Echiste's own trade and attract more business and more settlers.

Image
------
Image of a colony fishing platform.

@@@@echiste.jpg
