Giledin
 
Gileden is a quiet, backwater world, consisting of a small village around the starport, and a scattering of migratory prospectors.  The world orbits a gas giant, which in turn occupies the innermost orbit of a small red star. Gileden is a very cold world. It rarely gets above freezing during the day, and the depth of night often result in "air freezes", when the carbon dioxide precipitates out of the atmosphere.
   
History
-------
Gileden was uninhabited until just before the Third Frontier War. A group of settlers from Deneb sector started a colony even as Zhodani fleets were crossing the frontier.  The settlers received little attention until the Navy decided to establish a small resupply base in the system. Naval vessels found the colonists and their ship gone, and their base camp deserted. A brief inquiry ended in a "probable enemy action" verdict, but this was later disproved by Zhodani records.  The base was closed soon after the war, but was quickly occupied by settlers. The current inhabitants make a small living from the traffic along the Spinward Main, and some small scale mining.
   
Starport
--------
The starport is poorly manned and ill-attended. No one knows anything interesting, and the starport bar even serves an overly expensive bad whiskey. 

The starport and "capital" occupy the deserted naval facilities. These are prefab domes and modules connected together. Snow and ice are piled around and over them as insulation. There are also exterior parking and storgae areas surrounded by ice walls.
   
The starport is well-equipped, with a shuttle and some techs, but has very small capacity (100 tons). Parts can be backordered for months. The Imperium maintains a small office run by whichever Starport Authority official got the short straw that year - Gileden is a prime punishment post in the SPA. The overall feel is probably close to a small airfield deep in the Yukon.
   
The town is obviously quite small. There is a bar & grill. There is one combined general store/assay office/broker/etc, plus a fusion heating plant & facilities, and some residences.
   
Prospectors 
-----------
What little industry there is on Gileden consists of independent prospectors. They roam the glaciers and hills in tracked ATV's. Their equipment is usually decrepit, and they are often deeply in debt to the General Store.
   
The Rift
--------
West of the starport is an enormous canyon known as the rift. It is very deep (2-5km), with sheer walls and treacherous edges. It runs due Southwest in a more-or-less straight line for some 500km.
   
The bottom is choked with snow, ice, and fallen rock. The walls are notable for the extensive deposits of a brittle, glassy mineral. To date, the "rift quartz" has found no useful application.
   
Image
-----
The remains of the first colony are some distance to the west of the starport, north of the rift. They sit at the opening of a canyon leading deeper into the mountains. They consist of some weathered prefab huts on crumbling concrete foundations. A vehicle park, landing pad, and the stub of a comm/sensor tower are also visible. All are drifted with snow and debris.

@@@@giledin.jpg


