Risek

The Risek Space Authority manages an octahedral space station in orbit.  A brief summary would describe the Risek system as a small, chilly, rock-and-ice ball with a booming interstellar "pass through" trade market.

The small population of this world largely live in orbital space arcologies, each of which maintains it own system of government and is in "coopitition" with the others. 

There are a total of 5 large arcologies: 
Risek-Central,
Spinward-1,
Spinward-2,
Trailing and
Alexandria.

Each system maintains a downport of various sizes and abilities on the planet itself, and is associated with a handful of "shallow" arcologies. The orbital arcologies maintain an effective defensive capability in and of themselves, and typically have 2-4 lightly armed SDCs for "emergencies". The SDC armament is closely monitored by the Naval authorities. 

Government
----------
Risek is an independently administrated system.This system is governed by an Imperial Baron, who maintains an official residence at the local Naval base, and minor residences on each of the arcologies and the planet. Strategically, it underpins the defenses of the Aramis and Regina systems. As such, Risek has a full, and well-equipped Naval Base. 

Economy
-------
Economically, the planet has been mined extensively for lead and other heavy metal deposits in deep mines. Many of the ancient, shallower mines have been consolidated into underground arcologies. These "shallow" arcologies have living quarters with augmented gravity areas, though the reliability, and the settings, of the systems vary. 
The main wealth of the system comes from its location. There is a large amount of Jump-1 traffic through Risek, and each orbital arcology competes to grab and hold as much of the trade associated with that traffic as it can. The laws, cultures, subcultures, local politics and random events make this port a dynamic and confusing experience.

Culture
-------
Socially, the peoples of the Risek system are balkanized. Each arcology, whether orbital or "shallow", has it's own distinct cultural flavour and strong group identity. Since the groups are separated by hundreds of kilometers or by hard vacuum, there is little fear of military aggression, but there is a strong sense of competition in the inter-arcology sports system. Visiting merchants from other arcologies and even the occasional tourist are also treated with suspicion. All arcologies have strict weapons restrictions.
 
In the "shallow" arcologies, agoraphobia has been a common mental illness in some sections. The surface is rarely visited by the citizenry, excepting organized youth groups and individualists. Those people raised on the planet have a love-hate relationship with the orbital arcologies. While fascinated by the idea of going into orbit, most will not accept a ride up, preferring to remain "inside". 

The orbital citizenry typically considers itself cosmopolitan, having frequent contact with visitors passing through the system. However, there is an expectation of "loyalty". If a merchant enters the system and does business at Risek-Central, that fact will be noted. It will also not be taken lightly, if the merchant decides to dock at Alexandria the next trip in.
 
Image
-----
Nighttime on the orbital observation deck overlooking Risek.

@@@@risek.jpg

