Jae Tellona

The Jae Tellonan year is approximately 2.2 standard years in duration, and the world has a 25° axial tilt relative to the plane of its orbit. A Jae Tellonan day is approximately 36 hours long in the mid–latitudes, but days at the polar regions are a little over an Imperial Standard year long. Jae Tellona has a diameter of 8,109 km, and a surface gravity of 0.625g.

Depending on latitude, temperatures on Jae Tellona can be torrid and even deadly. Jae Tellona has no free standing water at all, and most off-worlders find the environment outside the underground complexes uncomfortable. Crossing the desert without a vehicle or environment suit is often lethal. Those not acclimated to the harsh wind and the lack of water-vapor in the air discover that exposed skin chaffs and blisters, often causing injury before the afflicted is even aware of the problem. Dehydration and heat stroke often follow if exposure occurs during the daylight hours.

Jae Tellona boasts a powerful magnetic field at its poles, approximately two orders of magnitude greater than the magnetic field of Terra, which causes the night months to often be lit by spectacular auroras. The aurora-light is often so bright that it is possible to see without visual aids. The interaction of the ions in the upper atmosphere with the planetary magnetic field can sometimes cause great problems in with sensors, contragravity lifters, and communications equipment. 

There is little native animal life on Jae Tellona, and the few muticellular life–forms that do exist are mostly insect-analogs. The dominant native life on Jae Tellona is a motile form of oxygen-producing desert algae that exists in extensive "carpets" in the planet's temperate zones, along with a variety of single–celled organisms and "insectoids" that exist in symbiosis with it as part of the planet's ecological cycle. Desert algal carpets and the parasites they host typically move at a maximum rate of about 10 km a week.

As a captive/colony type government, the colony falls nominally under Imperial Law, operating under charter by Sternmetal Horizons, LIC, and is overseen by the Imperial Navy. Planetary law enforcement agents are mostly corporate security personnel, without much real power, but enough to make them better avoided than crossed.

The northern-polar city is known as Stargate Artica, while the southern-polar city is known as Stargate Antartica. The majority of the population in each of these cities exists underground, though both cities also have some hardy surface dwellers who see living on the surface as a sign of superiority. Stargate Artica is the older of the two cities, and is slightly larger and more developed in terms of its underground complex. The underground complex of Stargate Artica is divided into eight Sectors. The sectors are connected by an extensive underground electrical railway system reminiscent of the subways employed in the undercities of the larger population centers of many lower tech worlds. Stargate Antartica has a similar system of classification but is far less developed, and has only five sectors.

Various installations all over the planet serve as access points to the extensive network of mines and tunnels throughout the planet’s crust. The buildings and installations of these access points often function as temporary cities. Most of these access points are located in the equatorial and tropical regions, often concentrated in the hills and mountains.

Recreational drugs are often freely available upon Jae Tellona and prostitution has evolved into an institution with benefits and pensions. As a result, Jae Tellona has tended to become a haven for criminal elements.

Image
-----
City of Stargate Arctica.

@@@@jaetellona.jpg
