Hexos

Planetary Appearance
--------------------
From orbit Hexos appears as a normal world, it is only when seen through high resolution imaging devices that one can see the rotting corpse of a world that is Hexos. Most of the water on the planet is located in two large ice caps at each pole. Geothermal vents keep small lakes liquid. Primitive lichen and algae live around these lakes; so far these are the only native forms of life that have been found on the planet.

 
Former Society
-------------- 
Before the Civil War, the population of Hexos lived in small domed cities. Most of these cities were located around geothermal vents. These provided a source of liquid water and heat. Geothermal power generation provided a cheap source of electricity. Crops were grown in underground hydroponic tanks. Livestock were raised in huge factory farms, where animals were born, lived and died all within a few feet. There were several groups of animal rights activists which protested the conditions at these farms, but most residents wanted meat more than they wanted happy animals.

The government on Hexos was almost nonexistent; it existed mostly to take care of interplanetary issues, and to maintain the common facilities, such as the starport, power generation, and life support equipment. A Planetary Council of ten individuals was elected every three years to oversee the bureaucracy. They made most routine decisions, anything complex, important or even somewhat controversial was put to a planetary referendum. These were conducted over the planet-wide computer net. A week long period of discussion would be followed by a vote. A simple majority decided all issues. These referendums were not that common, usually only one every few months.
   
Hexos had a sizable Chirper population. Unlike most worlds where Chirpers are second-class citizens, if even citizens, the people of Hexos treated the Chirpers with respect and dignity. They had full voting rights, but few if any took advantage of it. Most of the chirpers worked at menial jobs such as janitorial staff, and all around grunt labor. The population had a laissez-faire attitude towards most things. People were free to do as they please, as long as no one else was harmed. If someone was harmed, society would shun the offending party, until they made redress. Extremely violent crime was very rare, but did happen occasionally. When such an unfortunate event occurred a group of citizens would find and eliminate the diseased individual.


History
-------
Hexos was settled in the year 631, by waves of immigrants from the Imperial core seeking a new life on the frontier. The planet was an important station in the Xboat route. The Imperial Navy established a base on the moon of the closest gas giant. The planet was fairly stable, the technological level was almost stagnant, rising from TL7 to TL8 over two hundred years. This fit in with the personality of the population; they are quite laid back.
 
Image
-----
Domed city on Hexos.

@@@@hexos.jpg
