Henoz

Henoz is a small world with a thin atmosphere. This atmosphere is tainted with heavy metal dust. These conditions require than humans wear protective gear equipped with a respirator when venturing outside. Henoz is a moon, but is subject to the gravity of its giant neighbor. These tidal forces stretch the moon, increase the geologic activity. Impacts by rocks and asteroids are also not uncommon, though large impacts are rarely a danger. 

Climate is generally cool at the equator, averaging 28 Celsius. Weather is dynamic and high winds are common. Henoz has permanent polar ice caps. 

There are large sections of plains and plateau around the equatorial region. Volcanos have formed along long north-south cracks in the surface caused by tidal forces of the gas giant. The volcanos' activity varies in intensity with the orbit of Henoz, but the pattern of eruption is difficult to predict. More stable mountain ranges form 2 rings at the approximately 40 degrees North and 40 degrees South. The major cities tend to be found in these regions, which are each serviced by dual maglev train systems which follow the mountain rings. 

Henoz orbits a gas giant residing within the inner edge of the habitable region of this system. Historically, the Henoz system names seem to have been derived from the family names of the original settlers or ancient Terran cities. Culturally, the origins of Henoz are from a Terran Latin culture, possibly from the Mexican or Cuban regions.

The capitol is currently Henoz City, and alternates with Juarez City every 10 years. The government is made of a quadricameral structure: Northern Assembly, Southern Assembly, Northern Synod, Southern Synod. The Northern structures create laws for the Northern region; the Southern structures for the Southern region. Laws passed passed by a simple majority in one region are then "offered" to the opposite structures, which may accept it without a vote or reject it by a super-majority of 60%. Rejected laws force a confirmation vote in the originating region, requiring a 60% super-majority to survive. Such "Split-Laws" are then considered to apply only the originating region. This style of government is very peculiar and has many eccentricities.

Henoz Startown is set in the center of a large, stable tectonic plate at the equator. Maglev trains run from the startown to connect the ring train systems. The juncture to the North is a Henoz City, the capital. To the South, is the larger Juarez City. Henoz has a 25-hour local day. 

Henoz has a sizable Chirper population located in 3 major habitats in the Southern Ring mountains: Quip, Kite and Jing. There is hunting in the mountains.

Facilities
----------
Henoz has a mid-sized downport (called Henoz startown) for shuttles and smaller starships. The construction yard at the orbital port has a reputation for excellent quality work with reasonable delivery times. Be advised that military and scout ship requests will take precedence to commercial work. Read the small print before signing any service or repair authorizations if there are deadlines to be met! 
The class-A downport is essentially three large concentric ring structures. Landing zones are spaced along these rings, with a rail system connecting the starport proper to the startown. There are heavy construction zones, and specialized launch sites for non-streamlined vessels. The main startown houses a city whose culture will be more familiar to travellers. All the services of an A-class starport are present including security, bonded warehouses and chandlers. The commercial area has banks, hotels, bars and restaurants, shops selling military surplus and catering to military tastes, as well as a strong flavour of "tourist-oriented" shops. 

Economy
-------
In addition to the star town, the equatorial plain areas are used for agriculture as the soil tends to be rich and fertile. Grains and sugars are common. Many plants have been engineered or bred to better survive the intense weather and low pressure. Most crops have biomechanisms to chelate the heavy metal particles. Some dry regions cultivate a type of cactus, which is used as a fruit and for distillation. 
The mountain rings provide a source of metals from mining. 
Most manufactories are located just outside the rings towards the polar climes, and use heavy-duty train systems to move goods to the cities and the startown. Argicultural technology, bio-engineering, pharmaceutical and chemical products are quite advanced.

Military
--------
Local Details There are usually no more than 6 SDBs in the system at any time, as Henoz is resource limited. The primary base is Henoz itself. This base is basic, but contains a functional spaceport capable of servicing the system SDBs. Two SDBs are stationed here, with regular deployments to reinforce operations at Maya. Two SDBs are usually hidden at Maya at or about P1. Two SDBs are found on local patrol around Havana.

Culture
-------
Henoz is home to a relaxed culture. It is common for events to have 15 or even 30 minute leeway with its start and end times. The constantly shifting weather patterns makes this a practical attitude perhaps, as strong storms can appear within minutes. To counteract the loss of productivity inherent, there is a strong element of project management in most aspects of industry, education and government. It is this tendency to be organized within the chaos that allows Henoz to be successful. 
Business hours are considered to be 10am - 7pm.

Image
-----
Train system at Henoz City.

@@@@henoz.jpg
