Rugbird

The system's population lives in orbital habitats: only repair crews (who receive hazard pay) venture down to the surface.  Remote-operated machines (heavily coated with resistent materials against an extremely insidious atmosphere) exploit the world's considerable resources.

Rugbird is a world with an extremely insidious atmosphere. The system's population lives in orbital habitats, and the world's considerable resources are exploited by remote-operated machines (heavily coated with resistant materials). Only repair crews, who receive hazard pay, venture down to the surface.
 
Rugbird has been described as “the most insidious world of the Marches”. Indeed, several scientific journals rate Rugbird as have the most dangerous/insidious/poisonous atmosphere of all the worlds in Spinward Marches Sector. One study, conducted in 822 by the Imperial Central Institute of Ecology on Capital (Core 2118), went as far as to crown Rugbird as the world with the most insidious (and radioactive) atmosphere of the Domain of Deneb. 

The very atmosphere is the reason for the system’s Amber Zone rating (imposed in 823 after the aforementioned study). Over the years, there have been countless incidences of “tourist” ships venturing too low for too long and having their hulls breached by the deadly air, ending up as skeletous hulks picked up by the surface machines. One study shows that on average, two ships crash on Rugbird because of the atmosphere a year. And that’s just the ones that are found. If a ship is unfortunate enough to end up in one of the chemical oceans, there is no hope at all, really... 

Surface machines (unmanned robots coated in resistant material) are the only things that venture into the sulphurous and radioactive atmosphere, to extract rare materials from the ground, the oceans and the air. 

Even in orbit one is not completely safe from the atmosphere. There are many geysers on the planet, which shoot jets of matter hundreds of kilometers upward. These jets are of particular interest to scientists, because of the chemicals within. Though they consist mostly of uranium, which is relatively common across the Imperium, they also contain rarer elements such as plutonium, thorium and neptunium. All radioactive elements that naturally exist on Terra are found in these jets, plus many isotopes and previously unheard-of compounds, in far larger amount than anywhere else in the Spinward Marches, or the whole Domain of Deneb, for that matter. These are very valuable, so the Imperium makes a point of predicting geyser jets, so shuttles can be set up to contain large amounts of the matter. A jet from geyser ZC-405624 on 133-411 (that’s the date, not a world name) contained a trace amount of hassium, an element until then thought to be non-natural by both the Imperium and Solomani Confederation.

About every fifty years a jet is recorded containing lawrencium, which was also thought to be non-natural before the first recorded lawrencium-containing jet in 113. A 567 jet from geyser ZC-409112 contained rutherfordium, but this non-Terran element had previously been found in a lake on Umri (Dagudashaag 1234) in the year 209. There have been unproved reports of jets containing mendelevium, darmstadtium, ununquadium and ununoctium (all thought to be non-natural), and a journal published by the Domain of Deneb Institute of Chemical Research on Vincennes (Deneb 1122), in association with Ling-Standard Products, published in 1034, reported surface machines possibly finding unbiunium (atom number 121) and unbiquadium (atom number 124) (synthesized in the Second Imperium) and as yet unsynthesized elements untrinilium (atom number 130) and unquadennium (atom number 149), but these have not been reported or confirmed by any other source. Lanthanum, essential for constructing jump drives, is also found on the planet, mainly as rocks.

The system was first explored by Third Imperium ships in the 40s, but was ignored until 61, when the IISS Rugbird noted high plutonium readings after an attempted landing (cancelled, of course, because of the dangerous atmosphere). The world is named after this ship, which is itself named after the Rugbird, a species of flightless birds native to Vland (Vland 1717).

Almost all of the world’s population lives in 244 orbital stations, all with a population of above 10000. In addition, there are smaller “satellite stations”, which make up for about 6% of the total population, have an average of 100 residents, and aren’t counted as “part” of any of the large orbital station for population censuses, though they are zoned into the “district” of the nearest station for political affairs. The highest-populated station is Vandershole, with a population of about 1,037,000, though the starport is located at the second-highest-populated station, Starport Station, which has a population of 557,000. The three highest-populated stations have class F spaceports, and the remaining 241 class G spaceports. As of 1105, the newest station is Nezeji, with about 24,000 residents, built in 1093.

Almost all of the bodies in the system have -bird as a suffix to their names, including the star, named Redbird, appropriate for its colour. Apart from Rugbird, two other bodies in the system are inhabited: Rugbird’s moon, Nearbird; and the system’s asteroid belt, Stonebird.

Nearbird has 4222 inhabitants, who all live in one settlement, known as Birdtown, around the moon’s class G spaceport. Nearbird has a thin, though breathable atmosphere, but no native life and low resources. Roads extend only a few kilometers from Birdtown, and the colonists’ plants only extend for a few hundred. The moon was first colonized in 151.

Stonebird is a rather average belt; most of it lies unmined and unexplored. Its 1627 residents are divided between Shallow Stone (956 residents) and Contact Point (671 residents). The belt’s class G spaceport is located at Contact Point, but Shallow Stone has more residents and facilities. The spaceport was first established in 95 as a possible location for a Scout Base, but this eventually fell through. Contact Point gained its first residents in 103, and Shallow Stone was established in 358.

The system’s gas giant, Bigbird, is mostly methane, and unsuitable for fuel dipping. Bigbird has a ring and six significant moons, all uncolonised and largely unexplored. The Terran-sized planet Greenbird has two moons, and the system’s only native life: small green plants, moss and algae which cover about 10% of its dry land. The system also contains Sandbird, a desert planet with a relatively large moon, and Smallbird, a small vacuum world with very high temperatures, the closest planet to Redbird.

Image
-----
Surface mining on Rugbird.

@@@@rugbird.jpg
