Vanejen

With an air pressure of 1.3 standard at sea level, the atmosphere of Vanejen is classified as dense. The very mass of the atmosphere means that storms, a common occurrence in the temperate regions, can be extremely violent; exercise due caution. A fairly standard oxygen/nitrogen mix, the extensive volcanic activity on this planet can raise levels of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and various sulfur compounds to the irritant stage in localized areas (closed valleys, for example), compounded during the summer season. The heavy use of fossil fuel technology exacerbates the problem in the major population centers, photochemical smog a common occurrence. Overall conditions, however, remain in the standard tolerance spectrum.

Vanejen itself is a cool world with a dense atmosphere, four mountainous continents and very deep oceans. While it is likely Vanejen has evolved its own life forms, so many imported species have become naturalized that indigenous life is difficult to identify. IISS investigators can only tentatively designate those species they believe to be native, being able to positively classify only obvious imports, such as those brought since Imperial contact. 
Of the four continents, humans have permanent settlements on the three in the equatorial region. The fourth, located in the northern hemisphere and considered barren, is set aside by the world government as a reserve for the indigenous, non-human population, referred to locally as Chirpers.

The icecaps of Vanejen vary seasonally, but average about 15 degrees longitude from either pole. Without extensive landforms to anchor them, these icesheets have a tendency to breakup, especially during the stormy local spring and autumn. This breakup and subsequent melting of the icebergs means that the salinity levels of the Vanejenese oceans, at least the surface layers, are comparatively low. The high winds discussed earlier, however, drive powerful ocean currents, pushing the lower saline waters aside in the areas around the 30 degree latitude region, allowing the dense, highly saline deep waters to come to the surface. This also drives a rich plankton biome in those regions, with a resultant vast array of marine life. The variable salinity, and rather colder temperatures, means that terramorphic life has a hard time adjusting to local pelagic conditions. So far only the Terran penguin has been able to naturalize itself - a Dolphin colonial group went bankrupt in 1095, without placing a single resident on the world. 

History
-------
When the Imperial Scout cruiser Vitus Bering entered this system in the year 53, they discovered a classic lost colony; a culture so regressed from its First Imperium origins they barely retained iron working skills. The Scouts requested an Interdiction, sealing the world from contact pending an Imperial decision on how to proceed.

As a local nobility was not in place for hundreds of years, the interdiction remained unchallenged, although it was haphazardly enforced prior to the beginning of the third century. Not until the Third Frontier War was the interdiction actually reviewed. In 980 the Imperial Navy received permission to contact the natives, and establish a base. In 995, only a few years after the end of hostilities, the Imperial Navy (IN) facility was closed.

However, by that time the Vanejenese had entered the economy of the Imperium and the starport was converted to civilian use. While that ended official military interest in this system, both the Navy and the Scouts retain rights for future bases. An Imperial Research Station, Gamma, was established in 1075. While the Station itself is well known, the type of research conducted is highly classified. It is thought that the Imperial Navy IN funds this Station.

Starport
--------
The starport at Vanejen is a class III facility, only recently beginning to offer refined fuel and basic ship repair. Built on the old Navy fortifications, the downport is located near the heart of the Vanejenese capital city of Jeelik. The highport is located on Vanejen's outer moon, Gajsarir, also built on abandoned Navy works. While interstellar traffic has grown dramatically, especially during the last 30 years, growth of the starport facilities has been haphazard. Several economic depressions and a series of scandals have shut down expansion of the port several times. A recent infusion of investments from a consortium of Denebian firms has allowed construction efforts to restart, with a new 20,000 dton berth scheduled to be opened in the near future. It is rumored that the starport will be upgraded to Class IV within a decade. 

Wildlife
--------
An unknown number of Chirpers, small bird-like bipeds of limited intelligence, are native to Vanejen. Once widespread, their numbers have dropped dramatically according to IISS estimates, even with active Imperial and local government intervention. Chirpers are still found on all continents, although there has been a push to transport them to specified reserve areas. This has met with limited success and increasing criticism. 

Chirpers are a semi-intelligent minor race native to this world, descended from omnivore/gatherers. Chirpers stand about 1m tall and weigh approximately 25kg. They are intelligent up to a point, and have been known to speak. Their intelligence is more of a rudimentary cunning, devoted to stealing shiny objects or intriguing gadgets. Since these are usually keys, shiny coins, or other small valuable items, the humans on Vanejen have never reacted well to the chirpers.

Chirper society consists of small groups living together with a limited social organisation. They follow age-old patterns of gathering fruits and berries in the wild. Previously wide-ranging, they have been systematically reduced to a few scattered groups in marginal territories.

Finally, chirpers are extremely swift, much more so than their size or build would indicate. They can dash and dart about virtually unseen, if they care to; if someone tries to catch one, it usually can get away. It is nearly impossible to catch a chirper.

Chirpers are named for the sharp bird-like chirp which characterises their speech.

Reports
-------
The Imperial Navy also conducts secret research on psionics at a laboratory on Vanejen.

Image
-----
Example of how higher tech level items are invading society.

@@@@vanejen.jpg

