MORA

Mora is known as the “Gateway to the Marches” as it sits at a convenient location on the jump routes through which much the Spinward Marches is reached from Deneb sector and the rest of the Imperium. As a result, it became the seat of both the Duchy government and the Sector administration and accumulated a disproportionate amount of wealth and influence.

Mora is a large, molten-core world with a diameter of 15,567 km (9,673 miles) giving it a gravity of 1.19G. A day lasts 23 hours and 51 minutes and it takes 1,162 (local) days to circle its sun.

The dense oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere is tainted with industrial pollutants from its past but over the last hundred years this has been reduced to a minor irritant by various environmental ‘clean up’ measures. As a result, almost all inhabitants and most visitors suffer no ill effects, though those of a sensitive constitution may prefer to wear some form of filter mask when outside the sealed areas of the arcologies.
 
Around 92% of the planet is covered with water, with only one small continent (Batadis), a few large islands, a few archipelagos, and a smattering of lesser islands rising above the surface of the sea.

A relatively high axial tilt of 33 degrees combined with an orbital eccentricity of 0.02 means equatorial temperatures of up to 60°C in Summer but in the polar regions, ice sheets cover large areas of the sea with temperatures as low as -65°C in winter.

Mora is named after a harvest goddess of an old Sylean pantheon. The continent, Batadis, is named after her cornucopia-like Basket of Plenty, and other prominent geographical features on Mora are named after artifacts belonging to other gods. The sun is named after the Sun God and the other inner planets after other gods. The biggest planetoids in the belt are named for members of the Guarek, a race of small mischievous supernatural beings akin to the elves, trolls, and dwarves of Old Terra and the gishkan of Old Vland. The two gas giants are named for two of the giants who hold up the sky, and the major planetoids in Gigig's trojan points (Borranek (The Vanguards) and Surranek (The Rearguards)) are named after heroes listed in the Heavenly Muster chapter in an epic describing the Dawn War between the gods and the primal forces that opposed the creation of Sylea. Erstine, the tiny outermost planet, is named after a dog-like animal belonging to Forigi, the Goddess of the Hunt.

Mora Highport
-------------
There is a very large Highport, handling bigger, unstreamlined starships as well as orbiting space habitats, space industry complexes and megacorporation docks. This major space station was financed by an economic coalition of the following corporations and megacorporations: Delgado Trading, Imperial Lines, Tukera Lines, Imperiallines, Ling-Standard Products, and Zirunkariish. 

History
-------
Mora is an Imperial industrial world with a population of over ten billions located in the Mora Subsector of Spinward Marches Sector in the Domain of Deneb. It is the capital of the Spinward Marches, and site of the first major Imperial establishment in that sector. The current ruler is Duchess Delphine Adorania Muudashir in her capacity of Matriarch of Mora. 
This world Naval Base is the HQ of the 73rd Fleet. 
This world Scout Base is the HQ for Scout activities in the Marches. 
It’s now more than a millennia since Ling Standard Products first established itself on Mora to exploit the rich natural resources of this water-dominated world. Over the centuries the population has swelled to over ten billion, mostly dwelling in hundreds of huge arcologies that dot the small areas of exposed land and sprawl across the seabed (primarily in the equatorial regions).

Mora was settled in 60 by Ling-Standard Products in order to exploit its riches. Over the years it grew into a thriving trade centre, building new ships, overhauling old ones, and producing other manufactured goods on the side. Sitting astride the trade routes to the Sword Worlds and later the Darrians, Mora became known as the "Gateway to the Marches". 

Society
-------
Mora’s population of over ten billion mostly live in huge self-contained arcologies, about one-eleventh of which are built on dry land on to the continent of Batadis and the various islands, though most of the available land surface is dedicated to intensive agriculture. The remainder are spread across the sea floor, mainly in the equatorial regions and often have seabed farms around them. Arcologies may be home to tens or even hundreds of millions of inhabitants. Around 300 million people live in space habitats spread out across the star system.

The planetary government of Mora is split into three authorities – the Judiciary (an elite council known as “The Eleven Brides”); the Executive (another elite council, of 33 women called “The Caucus”); and the Legislative authority which is theoretically held by the Duchess of Mora in her capacity as Matriarch, but in practice exercised by a large bureaucracy appointed by her.

Over the last millennium, Mora has suffered various conflicts – mostly between the merchant lords who sought to control it for its strategic position and trade value. However, for the last 400 years the strong rule of a steady line of matriarchs has provided a relatively stable and tranquil environment. The current Matriarch is Delphine Adorania Muudashir, 15th Duchess of Mora, who has reached the remarkable age of 135 years, has ruled Mora for more than 100 years, and is generally regarded warmly by Mora’s population. As Mora also hosts the Imperial Sector Administration, the political and economic power-play of the whole of the Spinward Marches revolves around the Duchess’ world.

Mora’s matriarchal bias extends across many of its government positions with males prevented (by law) from rising above specified levels of responsibility.

Components of each of the military services provide law enforcement and first-response teams for the emergency services, with close day-to-day liaison with the judiciary run by The Eleven Brides. However, the Matriarch has overall control of the planet’s military and can mobilize any and all of its units in a crisis situation. The world’s laws are fairly strict and somewhat intrusive.

Police units are armed, never hesitate to point their weapons at potential criminals and can call on military assault teams at very short notice. They expect all civilians to be obedient and produce identity documents whenever asked for, etc. There is also a high degree of video surveillance around the arcologies. The police are not thugs; most of them are very approachable and helpful. However, they are capable and ready to deal with those who break the law.

Downport and Startown
-------------------
Mora Imperial Downport is located on an island in the Fakla River estuary, adjacent to the capital Wavecrest City on the east coast of Batadis. Two of the other arcologies have spaceports and most have some form of airborne access, being built in sufficiently shallow water for their uppermost levels to be above the surface of the sea. Given Mora’s economic, astrographical and political importance, its downport is huge (140 square kilometers) and one of the busiest in the Marches. There is an equivalently large highport, handling bigger, unstreamlined starships as well as orbiting space habitats, space industry complexes and megacorporation docks.

Not only is the downport very large but in a fairly uncommon arrangement the associated startown is inside the extrality fence so the port’s boundaries are swelled by residential areas, warehousing districts, and an extensive diplomatic district housing hundreds of ambassadors and their staffs, as well as the ducal palace. As a result, the extrality fence encloses an area of roughly 140 square kilometers.

The various names applied in connection with the urban agglomeration at the Fakla River estuary are often confused and mixed up. ‘Wavecrest City’ is strictly speaking only the part that lies outside the extrality fence, but is often used to include the part inside. The part inside the fence is officially the Imperial Enclave, but is often referred to indiscriminately as ‘the startown’ or ‘the starport’, since there is no real separation of the two.

Mora’s law requires all visitors to store personal firearms in secure facilities inside the extrality fence before leaving the Imperial Enclave. The only weaponry allowed outside the extrality fence are stunners, small blades, larger blades if of appropriate social status or career background, and clubs or similar.

Mora is XTEK of Deneb, LIC. Spinward Marches headquarters.

Image
-----
Cityscape on Mora.

@@@@mora.jpg

