Trin

The shattered moon creates a veil of highly reflective particles around the world.  They give a name to the entire subsector. 

Trin Lives... That is the first thing that hits you as you come out of jump, and hear the enormous amount of radio traffic that all busy ports have. Freighters and scouts, yachts and warships, all of the typical retinue of a major port is here.
   
Only as you near the white orb of Trin - with its thin, sky blue belt - can you spot the carnage. Several large impact craters which dot the northern hemisphere. Black scar marks, which pepper hundreds of square kilometers of the Von Herrio Glaciers. Above all, the orbiting hulk of dead cities, once home to 800 million people, now fly in a twisted, ghastly dance over the fair world of Trin.
   
Docking at New Sorrom Highport, the visitor is accosted with rules and regulations. While necessary in the Quarrentine Zone, the rigour and harshness of the Navy seem more apparent here than anywhere else.
   
The actual starport itself is ample for any need or service. The inhabitants of high ports are famous for living a world apart from the folks dirtside, and the 80 million inhabitants of New Sorrom are no different.

Colonized not long after Mora, Trin is viewed as the back door to the Marches. Reachable by Jump-2 ships from a rich trade route in the Deneb Sector, from where it is possible to reach coreward and join the Spinward Main or spinward towards Glisten.
 
Large quantities of goods move through Trin's excellent highport. The Highport is host to many brokerages and commercial dispute resolution firms. While many of the facilities are geared toward larger ships, generally for the larger transshipment/trading corps and megacorporations, the repair and dockyard facilities are available to smaller ships, if they can afford the fees.

The Highport is also Home to the Imperial Trin Institute of Commerce or ITICk, a large facility for training spacer crews, as well other merchant activities such as brokerage and law. It is a common destination for those who seek higher learning in a merchant career, and many of the spacers also join the Naval Reserves, undertaking training at the Imperial Navy base within the system.

The Naval base serves as HQ for the subsector fleet and as a base for the heavy squadrons of the Sector Fleet. Local ground defenses are controlled groundside on Trin, but many of the System Defense Boats berth at the naval base.  Elements of the 207th Fleet are based at Trin, but like the rest of the fleet it is under-strength and reliant on its reserve enlisted and commissioned officers for any major deployment or action.

The Scout base is an X-boat logistical and service base, and does little exploratory work.

Ling-Standard Products has a major facility within the Trin System, a rockball world called Ling Standard Products Spinward. Originally planned as the regional HQ for LSP, to replace the facilities at Mora, it instead became an R&D and manufacturing site.

Ground vehicles are rare on Trin, other for industrial or agricultural use. Maglev trains and grav buses provide the bulk internal city and inter-city transport, with some grav vehicles for rapid city to city transport. 
The education level in Trin is very high, and upward mobility is available through work promotions as normal, but there are also government sponsorships for people working in the arts or sports, or pursuing interesting ideas in technology or business.

There is a robust social safety net for those who find themselves on hard times, and the standard of living for the poor is higher than that found on frontier or most industrial worlds.

The efficient social system, coupled with Trin's high Tech Level, means that Trin is an industrial powerhouse and exporter of goods to a wide range of markets. This is facilitated by its location, with access to the Spinward Main and Deneb Sector.

Image
-----
Downtown on Trin.

@@@@trin.jpg
