CRUCIS MARGIN SECTOR

BACKGROUND

The Crucis Margin is located slightly rimward from the centre of the Trailing Edge of the Imperium. No system in this sector owes direct allegiance to the Emperor though mutual non-aggression pacts exist. The Crucis Margin is one of the group of sectors known collectively as the Gateway Quadrant. This area of mixed states separates the Imperium from the domains of the Hive Federation and the Two Thousand Worlds. The sector name is derived from the largest independent state in the sector, the Union Crucis.

There are 425 planetary systems in the Crucis Margin Sector, with a Total Population of 737.29 billion.

IMPERIUM INVOLVEMENT

No worlds in this sector owe allegiance to the Imperium although most systems have a majority population of humaniti. Imperial interests are furthered through commercial and political activity. Client States, especially Sphere Fenix, have been encouraged to act as Imperial Surrogates.

HIVER INVOLVEMENT

No worlds in this sector are settled by the Hive Federation although their trading vessels are active in the Trailing Rim quarter. Significant military forces are de-emphasised but commercial and political activity is great.

K'KREE INVOLVEMENT

No worlds in this sector are settled by the Centaurs although trading vessels are active in the Trailing Core quarter. Significant military forces are de-emphasised but commercial and political activity is very high.

MANDANIN CO-DOMINION  -  ( 82 systems )

Information concerning the precise internal structure of the Co-Dominion is scanty and nebulous at best. It is a cooperative state with complete integration between the two member species. Imperium historical information appears to have been accidentally destroyed during the last Civil War. Only
fragmentary texts of previous records remain. Previous organisations in this area appear to be clan/commercial structures of no great extent or permanence. Several non-human intelligences were also present in the region, at least one in the early stages of starflight. Theoretical research on hyperspace was being conducted but there were no plans to construct jumpdrive prototypes yet.  Alien-Human contact was peaceful and constructive. Three centuries ago a joint Human-Alien culture started to spread out simultaneously from several nuclei systems. Growth has been steady since then, emphasising cooperative ventures between Human and Danin authority structures. Only a century or so ago a militant revolution completely restructured Mandanin Society and initiated an aggressive expansionist policy. Information of any sort about the internal affairs of the Mandanin Co-Dominion is suppressed. Internal trade is restricted to authorised companies and external trade is limited to several supervised starports. Recent expansion attempts into the Marlan Primate have been decisively defeated. Past incursions into the Krax Confederation indicate new expansion will be aimed in their direction.

HV'IKA KAMLIN  -  ( 6 systems )

The Hv'ika Kamlin is an independent state composed primarily of members of an Alien Minor Race and a Minor Race of Humaniti. They are a Client State of the Hive Federation, greatly influenced by it and militarily allied. While active in commercial and political affairs, the predominant philosophy is not militarily aggressive.

RAMAYAN  -  ( 1 system )

Ramayan claims precisely one system in this sector and has not modified its borders in this direction in over five centuries. Trade is not restricted but most Ramayan citizens are extremely conservative and philosophically inward directed. Political attitudes are Neutralist, though friendly towards the Imperium. A Mutual defence treaty with Sphere Fenix has been in force for the last three centuries.

SPHERE FENIX  -  ( 90 systems )

Sphere Fenix was originally settled by a very diverse group of refugees from the collapsing First Imperium. During the Long Night, these fugitives flourished into a series of mini-states. About 500 Imperial dating, a series of small but bitter wars broke out. In 724, the three surviving states declared peace on each other and met to discuss reunification. Though the precise details of governmental structure took over 28 years to develop, Sphere Fenix dates its birth from that meeting. Though internal unrest has occurred since, the overall prosperity has continued to increase. A mutual defence treaty was signed with Ramayan in the 8th century Imperial. Technical assistance is received from the Imperium Military Services and Imperial Security is rumoured to have great influence. In spite of having fought no major wars in centuries, military prowess is high and it has become traditional to serve a term or two as a Mercenary in one of the surrounding states, especially the Marlan Primate. 

CHHUNG KUO  -  ( 33 systems )

Chhung Kuo is a term from an ancient Solmani language meaning "Middle Kingdom". It to was established close to the end of the First Imperium by refugees from the turmoil. In order to unite the disparate elements, a deliberate attempt was made to establish a revival of the "Golden Age of Chinese Culture". Though primarily settled by Humaniti of Solmani ancestry, a significant minority of the population is composed of resident Alien members of the Minor Races. Philosophy is directed towards constructive cooperation with a conservative respect for tradition. Both the Humaniti and the Minor Races maintain universal military training for self defence but seldom serve as or hire Mercenaries. Trade is encouraged and a high degree of interest is maintained in technical progress. Diplomatic policy is defensive and mutual non-aggression pacts have been concluded with all neighbouring states.

UNION CRUCIS  -  ( 123 systems )

Union Crucis also began during the end of the First Imperium as a combination of refugees for self defence purposes. In this area, though, two other factors came into play, the presence of several Minor Races of Aliens on the planets and the proximity of two separate Major Races of Aliens. Interspecies cooperation and competition has always been present on the area. Humaniti, as
the most numerous portion of the population, formed the core around which groups gradually coalesced into larger and larger political units. Open warfare was uncommon, although small skirmishes were frequent among the different Humaniti factions. These four factions are the Suo, Sliv, Cast, and Nar with 28, 17, 22, and 16 systems respectively, with the remaining 40 systems being uncommitted. Many of the Suo planets have trade links with the Hv'ika and Hivers. Most Cast and some Sliv planets trade with the Chhung Kuo and with the Two Thousand Worlds. Around a century or so ago an expansionist political party gained prominence in the Nar systems. Unable to expand into the Union, armed incursions were directed into the Mandanin Co-Dominion. At first successful, Co-Dominion counter efforts became more and more forceful, completely halting Nar expansion. Economic pressure upon the Nar by the Suo and Cast to cease expansion was resented by Nar. Sliv extremist groups also viewed this pressure with extreme disfavour. At the present time internal dissent is at the highest level it has been since  the formation of the Union Crucis. No faction is yet willing to utilise armed force on each other but political and espionage conflicts are increasing. All political moderates are strongly urging peace and accommodation but the situation is fluid. The Humaniti and all major resident Alien political factions are exerting as much calming influence as they can but some unknown factor seems to be agitating for breakup of the Union.

RM NAI  -  ( 6 systems )

Rm Nai involvement in this sector comprises five systems at the Spinward Rimedge. Of Solmani extraction, the Rm Nai are xenophobic and advocates of Human Supremacy. Internal power struggles have, over the last four centuries since the formation of the Rm Nai state prevented expansion. A strong ruler has just consolidated her position and now the Rm Nai are ready to move outward.
