Government - The Jaenian Agricultural Council promotes the food and plant 
life exports that are key to the planetary economy. They also run the 
planet. The Council is composed of a total of fifteen members, twelve of 
whom are leaders of the large Agricultural Guilds that grow the crops that 
make up the largest source of income for the planet. The other three members 
of members of large scientific or other industrial groups that rotate 
membership on the Council. Guild leadership is hereditary and often is tied 
to past family mechanical, scientific or economic expertise. The Council 
controls the planet with almost an iron hand. Government censors control 
planetary communication and recreation broadcasts. The government sets 
strict price controls for food and consumer goods and controls offworld 
travel.  The three rotating members have been pushing to change the name of 
the ruling council to the Jaenian Planetary Council. The guilds are very 
conservative in nature. The Agricultural Guilds marry amongst themselves. It 
would be unheard of for a member of the Tupella Producers Guild for example, 
to marry a member of the Petrochemical Society.


History ­ Jaen is a backwater world in the Cruis Margin sector. Human 
Settlers reached the planet many years before the Long Night came and with 
the Long Night the planetary tech level dropped. The first settlers came 
here because of the climate, the near Earthlike atmosphere and large water 
percentage. The farm equipment that they brought soon became a key part of 
their livelihood and the key to day-to-day life. The hundreds of acres of 
farmland soon covered a good percentage of the land. Petrochemical deposits 
were also discovered but the agricultural council controlled their 
exploitation. The Jaenian Agricultural Council promotes the food and plant 
life exports that are key to the planetary economy runs the planet. The 
first members of the Council as planetary legend has it were a few of the 
settler¹s mechanics and one of the ship captains. The mechanics were vital 
to keeping the agricultural machinery running.

The large white tupella flowers and the yellow-green halmenta fruit (which 
is similar in taste and texture to the Terran apple) are two of the main 
exports of the planet.  The local farmers also grow Terran onions, potatoes 
and cabbages. Several indigenous wildlife species have been bred for 
commercial production. The oceans are home to a variety of marine life, 
which is harvested for protein for the world¹s population. Petrochemical 
deposits have recently been discovered in a relatively shallow portion of a 
large ocean about 120 miles southeast of the capital city.
Ninolv is the capital city and the largest city on the planet, with a 
population of 400,000 people. Large buildings make up the city. The populous 
in the city both work and live in sizable Urbanates where they both work and 
live. The schools and recreational areas are inside the urbantes as well. 
Rural workers live in smaller sized urbantes around the planet, that are 
similar to the large urbanates. Ninolv sits along the shores of a large 
ocean and is home to the world¹s starport. The starport is a downport 
outside the city limits and is patrolled by the council guards to prevent 
outsiders from causing disturbances while loading and unloading their goods. 
The Mercantile Concord is the planets largest trading partner in the 
subsector. The Conord sends a far trader each month to the planet to pick up 
food and other exports in return for importing cheap higher tech consumer 
goods such as Vid players. Complaints from their merchants about the 
primitiveness of the starport facilities are often heard offworld. But the 
demand and the supply for the flowers and the halmenta fruit are steady, 
even reaching to the Ten Thousand Worlds, which is rumored to be interested 
in sending an investigatory trading mission to the world.
The planetary government has been sending probes to the outer system and has 
established a small scientific base on the planetary moon. The rockets are 
powered by liquid oxygen and are launched from a secure 
government-controlled starport. The government has recently negotiated an 
agreement with a mining company from the Mercantile Concord to explore for 
minerals in the systems planetary belt. The Mercantile Concord has been 
pressuring the government to upgrade the starport.

The average main planetary temperature is 47 degrees Fahrenheit.

Adventure Seeds: Scientists on the planetary moon have picked up a 
communications signal from the system¹s asteroid belt, yet the Mercantile 
Concord corporate mineral survey of the system is not due to start for 4 
months. The PC¹s are transporting supplies aboard their ship to the base. 
Can they assist? What is the source of the signal?

Sakura Megis a daughter of a leading member of the Halmenta Growers union 
has fallen in love with Ishugi Marron a son of a member of the Oceanic 
Mining Guild. Can the PC¹s assist in arranging a marriage? Will violence 
break out??

