Jode

A large world on the main Imperial xboat route in the Pretoria subsector. When the Imperium's Second Survey was published in 1065, Jode's UWP was A9A6220-B. Six years later, Leavitt Labs, an oceanographic research firm based on Carthage/ Pretoria, developed a new combat drug derived from the Jodian salalor. Jode's population has mushroomed since that time, and now numbers over four million.

Although the concentration of chlorine (about 120 parts per million) is not high enough for the atmosphere to be corrosive, even short exposures without a mask will cause extreme irritation and permanent lung damage. Local plants and animals are inedible to humaniti (not always poisonous, but certainly non-nutritious and horrible tasting.)

Most of the current population of four million live in the orbital complex or in sealed surface environments. Major export items include pharmaceuticals refined from sea creatures, and minerals mined in the island archipelagoes.

Jode's only major island group, the Festral Archipelago, is all that remains of a sunken continent and the sentient land-dwelling race which inhabited it. No living member of this race survived the geological cataclysm estimated to have taken place one million years ago, but archaeologists working underwater have discovered a large number of primitive artifacts. None of Jode's sea dwellers are sentient, although one has behavior and communication patterns reminiscent of Terra's dolphins or Zurr's lasat, and some others have well-developed manipulative members. Many of the Festrals also support sea "birds" and a limited land ecology.

Jode has a law level of three,reflecting its "boom town" status, and it is not uncommon to see people wearing sidearms. Some harmless offworld compounds are highly toxic to Jode's indigenous animals and are also used defensively by the locals.

The starport is totally orbital. Starship landings on Jode are hazardous because of the constant cloud cover; gusting banks of yellowish clouds can reduce visibility to zero in minutes. Pilots who are familiar with the atmospheric conditions and trained in instrument-only landings make regular shuttle runs

Orbital One, Jode's original starport, has been gutted and is now used as a 500,000-ton fuel depot. The 170-million ton complex of Jode Orbital was completed in 1102 and can now hold 2.2 million inhabitants. Additional statistics include: 5.1 million ton power plant, 0.85 million ton maneuver drive to counter orbital decay, and 11.05 million tons of fuel, enough to last one standard year.

Jode Orbital contains the class A starport, the starship construction yard, Traveller's Aid Society facilities, the bulk of the pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, and a Vargr trading station. Because of Jode's proximity to Vargr space, 10% of Jode's population is Vargr.
