
Introduction
------------

   Vincennes is the technological jewel of the Regency. The planet is the
   Regency's singlemost advanced producer of commercial technology, known
   for its unique environmental characteristics and reclusive society.
   Many detractors of Vincenzi success cite the system's inability to
   achieve universal TL-17 technology as indicative of the system's
   imminent decline. The growing interference of bureaucracies and the
   aristocracy in Vincenzi entrepreneurial interests threatens to derail
   all that the Vincenzi have built. The spectre of crime and corruption
   has begun to taint the planet's prospects as well. The upcoming age
   will not be easy for the Vincenzi, but if their hallowed
   entrepreneurial spirit prevails, Vincennes will continue to shine as a
   nexus of technological and societal wonder.

Capital of Vincennes subsector in Deneb Sector, Domain of Deneb.

Vincennes is currently the only industrial world in the Domain of Deneb to have reached a level of technology higher than Imperial standard. The population lives either in underwater metroplexes around the world's sole continent, or in 71 gravitic cities which can vary their altitude to suit the prevailing weather conditions.

The system layout is somewhat unusual. Vincennes is in the life zone of the K7V star Undraczech, but it actually orbits that star's dim red companion, the M7V star Ember. Depending on whether Vincennes is between the two stars or on the far side of Ember from Undraczech, its mean temperature varies by approximately 85 K. This wide thermal range leads to tremendous storms sweeping the planet on a regular basis.

The third star in the system, Guazhirniim, orbits at a great distance. Its own planetary sub-system includes the agricultural world of Paven, which produces most of Vincennes' food supply.


Origins of Vincenzi High-Tech
-----------------------------

   The origins of Vincennes' amazingly innovative and enterprising
   society are the result of the unique properties of the world and its
   trinary star system. To understand Vincenzi technological innovation,
   one must understand the hostile environment Vincennes presents to its
   inhabitants. Vincennes orbits Ember, the close companion of system
   primary, Undraczech. Because of the proximity of the two stars to one
   another, Vincennes' orbit takes it almost directly between Ember and
   Undraczech. The weak stellar emanations of red dwarf Ember are
   insufficient to support life on their own. When Vincennes is in close
   proximity to Undraczech, however, intense stellar radiation produces
   extremely high temperatures and inclement meteorological activity on
   the planet. The result is that Vincenzi temperature and weather
   patterns vary greatly over its 199.27 day orbit around Ember.
   
   During Vincenzi summers, when the planet is directly between the two
   suns, temperatures climb to an unbearable 66 degrees C. Massive
   convection storms sweep the planet and the intense heat releases
   sulfur compounds from the planet's ocean depths, shrouding the entire
   globe in blustery cloud formations. Autumn is the rainy season on
   Vincennes, with the highly acidic taint of the planet's atmosphere
   producing acid rain storms that force Vincenzi to don protective
   clothing and breathing masks when going outdoors. During winter, when
   Vincennes is at its most distant point from Undraczech, the
   temperatures drop as low as -20 degrees C. Icebergs dot the ocean
   surface around the globe, with polar ice caps forming in the southern
   and northern extremes. Spring is the most pleasant season, during
   which the temperature is at a comfortable level and the atmospheric
   taint is reduced to the point that the normally reclusive Vincenzi can
   actually come outdoors and breathe in the open air.
   
   The extremely hostile environment of Vincennes begs the question, "Why
   colonize such a planet?" The answer is that Vincennes is rich in
   natural resources. Underneath Vincennes' deep, nearly worldwide ocean
   (Vincennes features a 94 percent hydrosphere), rich deposits of ores
   and radioactives await industrial development. While several sprawling
   undersea metroplexes have been erected over the centuries to exploit
   Vincennes' resources, many geological surveyors believe Vincenzi
   industrial interests still have only scratched the surface. The
   difficult prospect of doing business on Vincennes spawned an active
   research and development community. Vincenzi innovation in
   communications, robotics and environmental technology have made it
   possible to operate in an otherwise unsuitable climate.
   
   Vincenzi life is generally compared to that of Cambrian-era Terra.
   Notable among Vincenzi lifeforms are beam, a bamboo-like plant
   structure that grows in Vincenzi oceans, and rockmat, a porous
   rockhard substance that grows around the rocky formations of The
   Shoal, much like Terran coral.

Society

   Notable among the Vincenzi metroplexes are Kehmed (the capital city),
   Burke (the newest of the metroplexes), Markel (dominated by SuSAG
   industrial concerns) and Willis. All of the metroplexes include scores
   of arcologies, domed cities and satellite gravitic cities that hover
   above the Vincenzi ocean, serving the ore transportation and trade
   interface needs of their undersea cohorts. Kehmed, far and away the
   most populous metroplex, includes an astounding 77 gravitic cities
   within its dominion. The gravitic cities come in numerous shapes and
   sizes and generally serve specialized purposes. Melchen, for instance,
   primarily serves the tourist and entertainment sectors, while Malin
   Tekhar and Dumorov are more industrial in nature. Remote Foxhunter, an
   irregular-formation gravitic city, inhabits Vincennes' horse
   latitudes, avoiding the worst of the planet's weather by deftly
   increasing its altitude during the summers. Many of the gravitic
   cities are lowered to the surface of Vincennes during the more stable
   winter and spring seasons. During these periods, ores and manufactured
   products are easily shipped from the undersea metroplexes to the
   floating gravitic cities via submersible.
   
   The solitary archipelago of the world, known as The Shoal, is sparsely
   inhabited. Due to seismic instability and heavy erosion during the
   summers, its rocky surface supports very few permanent habitations.
   Only Vincennes Down Starport and its surrounding community maintain a
   large permanent presence. During the stormy summers, landings at
   Vincennes Down would be nigh-impossible if it weren't for advanced
   Vincenzi manipulator technology that enables the starport to
   gravitically guide starships to safety.
   
   The proliferation of high-tech among Vincenzi citizens has resulted in
   a unique society. Vincennes' advanced communications and computer
   technology enable most Vincenzi to perform business completely from
   their homes. An entire world of telecommuters maintains contact with
   one another using holographic meson communications equipment. Entire
   board meetings of some Vincenzi corporations are held in virtual
   boardrooms that exist only in the conceptual sense. Holographic
   representations of one's business associates may be projected so that
   they appear to be in the same room, even though they may be on the
   other side of The Shoal, the planet or even the outer system.
   
   Most Vincenzi have managed to acquire at least a moderate amount of
   personal wealth. While Vincenzi society is hardly utopian, it can
   accurately be said that advanced technology on Vincennes has paved the
   path for most of the planet's inhabitants to build at least a small
   personal fortune.
   
   During the pre-Rebellion era, advanced robotics were employed to
   perform virtually all dangerous or undesirable tasks on Vincennes,
   including mining operations, zero-G ops in orbit of Vincennes and
   deep-sea construction. The antirobotic hysteria that swept the Regency
   after the appearance of Virus greatly injured the Vincenzi robotics
   industry. Native Vincenzi, however, were not willing to give up the
   advantages their robots gave them. Instead, they have willingly
   submitted to RQS regulations that limit offworld exportation of
   Vincenzi robotics technology. Since then, technology-sharing
   agreements with advanced robotics research groups on Rhylanor and HRD
   have spawned astonishing advances in Virus-proofing techniques. These
   developments, along with decreasing antirobotic sentiment and
   aggressive lobbying by `G' (Vincennes' largest and most powerful
   distributor and exporter of high-tech equipment) and several Vincenzi
   industrial consortiums has resulted in a gradual thawing of the RQS
   regulations. Within the last decade, Vincenzi robotics construction
   and exportation has reached about 25 percent of its pre-Rebellion
   level.
   
   Because of the Vincenzi tendency to utilize high-tech communications
   for most of their interpersonal contact, offworlders will discover
   that most of the people they meet on Vincenzi streets are other
   offworlders. Just because Vincenzi tend to be reclusive doesn't mean
   they're entirely unfriendly, however. While actual person-to-person
   contact is not common, when Vincenzi do get together, they tend to
   hold gala events, parties and festivals that rival any in the Regency.
   In the spring, Vincennes' gravitic cities retract their roofs and
   millions of people gather in plazas, parks and the streets to engage
   in spring festivals and celebrations.
   
   Crime has traditionally been a remarkably small problem on Vincennes.
   Due to the Vincenzi tendency to operate from their homes, reduced
   interaction between people and relative economic well-being have
   prevented the criminal turmoil that plagues most high-population
   Regency systems from developing on Vincennes. The moderate influx of
   refugee population and arrival of several discreet white-collar
   criminal organizations, however, has tainted Vincennes' crime-free
   reputation since the Collapse. Many offworlders attribute these
   problems to the resurgence of the notorious Humbolt family on
   Vincennes, whose criminal tendencies are legendary. Vincenzi natives,
   however, generally point their fingers at opportunistic offworlders,
   who are all too eager to reap the financial rewards of doing business
   on Vincennes and frequently resort to criminal pursuits to do so.

Obtaining Vincenzi Technology
-----------------------------

   Traders and travellers coming to Vincennes for high-tech goods won't
   be disappointed in the selection but they may be a bit miffed by the
   amount of bureaucratic red tape they have to cut through to buy any of
   it. The planet's high-tech market sells TL-16 goods primarily at the
   planet's orbital starports and Vincennes Down Starport.
   
   Most would-be tech purchasers are usually surprised by the level of
   interference from the Vincennes Trade and Commerce Commission (VTCC).
   The VTCC is one of the more intrusive trade management bureaucracies
   in the Regency and maintains strict guidelines by which sale of
   high-tech goods may be made. Regency citizenship is required for any
   purchase and all computer, communications and robotic equipment sold
   on Vincennes undergoes thorough examination by local RQS officials
   before export. The VTCC's primary concern is quality control and the
   level of technology proliferation. Most VTCC bureaucrats support a
   controlled-growth economic philosophy.
   
   The VTCC's primary opponent is `G,' the main distributor and exporter
   of Vincennes' advanced technological goods. G has recently begun to
   build a spin-off company, `H,' whose primary concern is creating
   venture capital for Vincenzi companies working on TL-17 prototypes and
   marketing these products to offworld interests. Because of the
   bureaucratic warfare between the VTCC and the more laissez faire G,
   and the rigidity of trade regulations, small lot purchases of Vincenzi
   technology are often difficult to arrange. Alternatively, tech-hungry
   adventurers may want to make friends with the more established free
   traders of the Vincennes Cluster. Many of them make large-lot
   purchases of Vincenzi tech and given the right price, are often
   willing to sell small or individual quantities of high-tech goods.
   Small-lot or individual purchases of Vincenzi equipment are therefore
   made, for the most part, not on Vincennes but in nearby systems.
   
   Vincenzi starships are renowned for their quality and ample use of
   TL-16 technology. Because of the planet's proximity to Depot Alpha and
   Depot Beta, Vincennes manufactures very few warships. A few escort and
   frigate variants are manufactured on Vincennes for the purpose of
   defending tech shipments or agricultural products from Paven, but for
   the most part, Vincennes concentrates on producing traders, liners and
   exploratory vessels. Perhaps the most well-known of Vincenzi starship
   designs is the 300-ton Gushiken-Class Free Trader. The Gushiken uses
   TL-16 technology to minimize the volume taken by drive and electronic
   component and maximizes cargo space. The ship was originally intended
   for microjump transportation of grain from Paven to Vincennes but has
   since been adopted for more universal use.


Government
----------

   Up until the formation of the Regency in 1132, Vincennes had been
   ruled by the Marquis of Vincennes for several centuries, a position
   appointed directly by the Archduke of Deneb after the controversial
   fall of the Humbolt family. The Humbolts had ruled Vincennes for
   almost four centuries when they were removed from power and exiled in
   628 for several violations of Imperial law, the most heinous of which
   was the exploitation and torture of the native sophonts of nearby
   Perez System. Following the Collapse and subsequent decline of the
   Imperial nobility, the wealthy Humbolt family made its return to
   Vincennes and reestablished their political hegemony on the planet in
   1147. The largely Solomani population of Vincennes was eager to
   overthrow the Garhik Dynasty, the last vestige of the invasive
   Imperial Nobility on Vincennes, and the return of the Humbolts
   presented them with the opportunity.
   
   The Humbolt family had lived for dozens of generations on a frontier
   world of spinward Gushemege Sector, but never lost hope for their
   eventual return to the world of their ancestors. Fleeing Virus and the
   effects of the Collapse, the Humbolts made their return to the Domain
   of Deneb scant months before the borders were closed.
   
   It has been revealed in the years since their return that a large
   contingent of the Humbolt family remained on Vincennes throughout
   their exile, operating underthe banner of several shadow corporations.
   These corporations may be more accurately described as cartels or
   syndicates whose primary function was the consolidation of industrial
   power under the yoke of the Humbolts. Five centuries of gradual
   political and corporate power bids gave the Humbolts a staggering
   advantage upon their "public" return to Vincennes. The current
   patriarch of the family, Gerhard Lewis Tolemi Humbolt III, maintains
   an intimidating presence on Vincennes, frequently interfering in the
   activities of major corporations and dabbling in VTCC operations when
   he can.
   
   Many Vincenzi complain about the intrusiveness of the Humbolt family
   in corporate affairs, but most are willing to tolerate them. The
   Humbolt family serves as a symbol of defiance to Imperial and Regency
   authority, which to most Vincenzi justifies their continued presence.
   
   For the most part, actual political power resides with the District
   Councils of each metroplex. Day-to-day legislative and judicial
   activities are the realm of the councils, who owe fealty and give lip
   service to the Humbolt family.

Military & Law Enforcement
--------------------------

   Before the Collapse, Vincennes maintained their modest military and
   law enforcement requirements through The Special Branch, a relatively
   small police organization and considerable network of contractors. The
   ranks of The Special Branch have swelled to over 20 million permanent
   employees in recent years in order to combat the increasing presence
   of organized crime and the illegal activities of The Pack, the Vargr
   crime syndicate. The Special Branch continues to employ millions of
   contract employees in its law enforcement endeavors as well.
   
   Traditionally, Vincennes maintained no standing army, but with the
   return of the Humbolts, a new emphasis on military strength has been
   established. Under the auspices of the Humbolts the Vincenzi 1192nd
   Air Cavalry Division was formed to act in the defense of Vincennes in
   the event of an attack. The 1192nd officially reports to the Vice
   Marshall of the Regency Army, but the unit maintains an obvious
   pro-Humbolt stance. Scores of mercenary groups are employed to
   supplement military operations on Vincennes as well.
   
   Though no formal naval base exists in Vincennes System, the Regency
   Navy maintains a large presence at Defense, Paven and Stopover, three
   of the outer-system worlds. Defense operates a considerable System
   Defense Boat and small Destroyer fleet. Paven, the primary
   agricultural producer of the system is heavily guarded by a regiment
   of crack Regency Marines. Paven suffered a horrendous decline in
   production during a Rebellion-era famine thought to have been caused
   by planted biological agents. The marine garrison on Paven is intended
   to prevent another such occurrence. Stopover contains a refueling
   depot for Regency Naval ships.
   



