   
Astrographic Notes
------------------   

   Borlund is in orbit 1 around the primary star Crotiv. That half-dead
   star, Idanoll, is in orbit 5. Borlund does have a trivial satellite
   barely worthy of being called a moon (Symot: YS00000-0), about 115,200
   km from Borlund.
   
   Because of the placement of Idanoll, there is a real, black Night for
   only half the year. For other half of the year, there is this dim red
   glow instead, brighter than Earth's moon, but nowhere near Sol, or
   Crotiv. The shadows and other light-effects of these two star can be
   quite pretty.


Introduction
------------

   Borlund is on the edge of the coreward border of the Regency, and
   directly faces Virus. However, RQS security at the recently
   established RQS base is only 'average': no Virus ship has crossed the
   boundary in over 20 years, and the subsector is rather on the
   low-tech, low-importance side. Indeed, considering the low esteem that
   Borlund is held throughout Deneb, some people feel that it would be no
   great loss if security on Borlund slipped up one day: others say that
   the Borlundlanders wouldn't even notice if Virus DID take over...
   
   As you arrive at Founder's Harbour, you are rather shocked by the
   extremely small port, the only one on Borlund. It's barely enough to
   hold 5000 disp of ships (This, in a world of 200 billion people!)
   
   As you look around, you note that just about everyone resembles
   everyone else: not clones, but almost. Also, just about everyone seems
   to be a cripple of some kind or another: some suffer from mental
   handicaps, others from physical ones, and still others suffer some
   hideous combination of both.
   
     REFEREE: For people and star travellers who probably have *never*
     seen a handicapped person in their entire lives, Borlund is
     extremely repulsive and alien. Most traders absolutely will not
     visit Borlund, for this reason as well as the very thin amount of
     trade available.
     
     When generating Borlundlanders, remember to deduct 3 points of every
     attribute, to model the effects of extensive inbreeding.
   
   Everyone seems to avoid you, except a very few "Customs" personnel:
   they treat you more like Aliens from Outer Space, but seem a lot more
   smarter and intact than their brothers - even if they insist on
   wearing bulky TL 9 space suits, complete with oxygen backpack and
   bubble helmet, tinted coal black.
   
   Almost all traders to Borlund are chartered by the Borlund government,
   carrying specific freight.: Speculating on cargo is vigourously
   discouraged on Borlund, as the government wishes to discourage as many
   visitors and traders from coming to Borlund as possible. The visitors
   - when they can resist gawking at the natives, who will be openly
   gawking at them - will have a very difficult time finding room and
   board. They will also have severe communication problems: the
   Borlundlanders have developed their own language over the centuries
   [Called "Words", it only contains 300 words], which has no relation
   with Anglic at all. Still, it's possible that they may come across
   someone whose handicapped only in the body, not the mind. Such people
   speak a convoluted, difficult-to-decipher form of Old Anglic.
   
   There is very little for the adventurer to do in this overcrowded
   asylum: the world is dirt poor, and - after a while - the
   entertainment/shock value of so many handicapped folk wears off. There
   is precious little to be traded: Borlund's entire industrial product
   is used simply to maintain the current standard of living. Moreover,
   the starport is on an island, hundreds of kilometers from the
   mainland: the only connection is by zeppelin transit.
   
   For the sociologist, however, there are interesting - if subtle -
   jewels to discover about Borlund. Most obviously, how can such a group
   of the blind, the insane, and the lame keep a TL 9 society going? What
   disaster happened that shaped Borlund to what it is today?

   
Appearance
----------

   The Borlundlander's dress actually most closely resembles that worn by
   ancient Greek actors. The men prefer sandals, long to mid-thigh togas
   (in white or a cream colour), with simple bronze masks over their
   faces (with maybe a few bumps and lines). The women, in contrast,
   prefer wooden masks with metal highlights, and two-piece, brightly
   coloured tunic/dress outfits. The upper-class women also wear long
   white gloves and a cloak/hood combo. These masks are never taken off
   in public, or before strangers.
   
   The more senior members of the Cult of the Bird dress rather
   differently. They prefer feathered dress - imitating some mythical
   Bird of Paradise, or perhaps something more simple like a Raven. The
   more noticeable aspect of them is their biomasks. Imported from Starn
   (Inar: Deneb/1417 B000996-F), 11 parsecs away, these masks cover the
   entire head, and can easily display emotions, lifelike reaction, etc.
   since they *are* alive. While their manufacturers recommend that they
   be removed one day out of five, the Borlundlanders prefer to leave
   them on, permitting them to bond inseparably to their heads.
   
   Remembering that most Borlundlanders are suffering from some genetic
   malady or other, canes and wheelchairs are quite popular, ranging from
   simple metal versions to ornate, powered ones. Everyone is quite
   dependent on designated 'helpers', usually people with only mild (or,
   very rarely, no) handicapps. These helpers are usually known by the
   Red Cross symbol they wear on aprons.
   
   The Customs personnel met at Founder's Harbour are among the most
   elite available to Borlund, with a minimum UPP attribute rating of 5
   (rather than the average of 3). Dressed in 60's style shiny space
   suits, they are rather better equipped than that: Their suit has an
   armour rating of 1, and all carry a pistol in their holster (easily
   accessible, but hidden from casual view). Outside of duty, they dress
   normally, but keep their bubble helmets on.


Xenophobia
----------

   While Borlundlanders are xenophobes, they're not very aggressive about
   it. They prefer to avoid strangers when possible, and many refuse to
   talk to them. Violence might occur if the strangers are perceived as
   threats, with unpredictable results.


Indispensible Tools
-------------------

   Borlundlander society is able to function thanks to a number of tools
   that they have seized on. Almost all managers, supervisors and other
   important personnel carry small computers (AI or Expert Systems),
   either wrist sized or 'tricorder' sized. These well-written programs
   provide much needed support and guidance in operating equipment,
   complex calculations, etc.
   
   Also, Borlund is probably the only world where robots are still in
   common use (although biogeneered monkeys and other 'organic robots'
   are slowly replacing them). True, almost all of these robots are at TL
   9, and thus expensive and slow. Still, without them, much of
   Borlundland society would be simply impossible.


Religion
--------

   In Ancient Times (See note), the major religion was a form of Ancestor
   Worship of the original Founders, especially the people whom the
   population is cloned after. However, from about 830 the Cult of the
   Bird - one of the Servani Cults - grew roots on Borlund: by the
   Rebellion Period, the Cult had become the dominant religion on
   Borlund.
   
   Unfortunately, the Cult - despite its off-world origins - is quite
   xenophobic. Moreover, its love of power, bizarre doctrines, mysticism,
   and basic cruelty has definitely hindered any cultural or
   technological renaissance of Borlund. Especially awful is their
   cosmology: their very bizarre theories about space travel, the
   Imperium/Regency, and spaceships have set back local knowledge of the
   heavens to the level of mere astrology. Their endless droning and
   recitations of supposedly magical words is quite annoying when in
   their company. (The phase "Wise and Cruel was the Bird. Wise and Cruel
   are the Sons of the Bird." is instantly recognizable across the
   Regency)
   
   The Cult may loathe and dread off-worlders (called Demons by them),
   but they love starships, and anything else that can fly for that
   matter. Thus their continual demand for Bird biomasks - despite the
   exorbitant prices. They will also pay serious prices for anything with
   wings and feathers.
   
   This love of flight - and more than a little of the Cult's ignorance
   and superstitions - also influences the upper classes (well, "Upper
   Classes" is a relative term: they're generally not the despised
   "inbred, moronic, chucklehead cripples" that most Denebi would call
   them, but they wouldn't have gotten past an entry-level position in
   most societies, either). The most wealthy individuals of Borlund
   generally travel to some high-tech world to have their legs amputated,
   and replaced with a grav unit. Almost everyone dreams of buying a
   Zeppelin, the most common form of long-distance transit on Borlund.
   Even hot-air balloons are more valued than the (extremely sturdy) cars
   that are available.
   
     REFEREE: 'Ancient Times'. For Borlund, this is pre-Doom, dated at
     757. The Borlund dating system starts from 758 (the first year,
     post-Doom): 1200 is PD 547 (Post-Doom 547)


History
-------

   The Founders - who arrived here from Corridor in 151 - were originally
   a well financed group of several thousand colonists, led by about 30
   wealthy men. As they grew old - and the rapidly growing colony needed
   more manpower than either immigration or normal population growth
   could provide - these folk chose to solve the problem by generating
   hundreds of male and female clones of themselves offworld, and
   shipping them over to Borlund (solving both the manpower shortage and
   satisifying their infinite egos).
   
   By the 230's, over 80% of the resident population of 80,000 people
   were clones of the 30 colony leaders. As the non-clones swiftly fell
   in social status and wealth, the Truechildren - the clone's name for
   themselves - grew to dominate the economy and culture, of only of
   Borlund, but of the entire subsector. (Borlund was named the subsector
   capital in 302: the subsector was also renamed Borlund at the same
   time)

   At the system's height -- at about 700 ...

     (UWP at the time: Borlund Borlund:Deneb/1406 B454999-C N Hi Cp 101
     Im K8V M9V)

   Borlund was the dominant financial centre for Pretoria, Borlund and
   Antra subsectors. Borlund was also noted for its famed "Table Towns"
   (actually looking closer to mushrooms, to this scout's eyes).
   Basically, a Table Town was a 500m diameter plate suspended on a
   squat, 100m diameter base. On the plate you could put a small town, a
   landing field, or most any reasonably-sized building. The ruins of
   these Table Towns can still be seen, quietly disintegrating as the
   locals no longer have the tech to maintain them.
   
   Borlund's proudest achievement was in protecting its ecosphere: its
   easy mixture of high civilization and African-veldt feel was unique in
   the subsector, and one of the ways that made Deneb Sector *Deneb*. Now
   even that's gone: the immense increase of the population, coupled with
   bouts of large-scale starvation during the late 700s finished the old
   plains forever.
   
   Borlund started to fall apart at 721, when the upper classes started
   to take wives and sire children by normal means, rather than by clone
   tanks or by implanting cloned eggs. The regular folk, quite envious of
   this upper-class privilege, insisted that they should be allowed to
   have "Traditional" children too. The upper classes, supported by the
   government, said no: to have normal children between such
   closely-related parents took careful, very expensive, DNA level
   therapy and the government couldn't afford to provide this service to
   the entire population. Moreover, they didn't want to pay either the
   financial or social costs such a widespread change would cause (from
   at least temporary surge in unemployment to changing a host of laws to
   the need to import lots of very expensive equipment from the other
   side of the Claw.)
   
   Class acrimony and strife became rampant. In protest, many started to
   illegally remove their contraceptive implants, and bear large numbers
   of children in defiance of widely despised laws. Large numbers of the
   more well-to-do middle class learned to view their government as
   unjust and oppressive, and left, taking their skills and money with
   them. Still others shouted about "Reproductive rights", and began a
   series of confrontations with the government, eventually growing more
   and more violent. The end came suddenly, when in 757 a ship's boat
   from the S.S. Bride of the Stars - charted by covert terrorists -
   crashed into Desomi City, detonating the 20MT nuclear warhead in it's
   hold. With the capital gone, the government collapsed, replaced by a
   pro-birth revolutionary council. The population soared as everyone
   imitated the large families of the elite. Since so many were clones -
   and thus too closely related to have genetically normal kids - the
   population soon became dominated by physically and mentally
   handicapped people. Borlund's economy - and the economy of the entire
   subsector - soon started to sink like a stone, as the cost of caring
   for/adjusting to these people grew exponentially. The situation became
   so bad that the Sector Duke petitioned - and received - a massive
   amount of Imperial Aid in the early 800s to deal with "the Borlund
   Problem". The Imperium soon had to struggle against mass chaos,
   starvation, and sudden epidemics. The Imperium managed to restore some
   sense of order by the 820s, and even brought back the Tech level to
   11.
   
     NOTE: Because of Borlund's lack of genetic diversity, the system had
     always been prone to epidemics, but the chaotic situation made
     things a good deal worse.

   When the new Sector Duchess ascended to office in 828, however, one of
   her first acts was to cut Imperial involvement in the Borlund
   Sinkhole. She further signaled the Imperial abandonment of Borlund by
   shifting both the subsector capital and the subsector name to Lamas.
   
   Borlund simply could not afford to maintain a TL B standing: a major
   depression fell on the world as soon as the last Imperial Relief
   Freighter left, and the patched together coalition the Imperials left
   to rule the world quickly collapsed in savage infighting. After the
   Weeping War ground on for a decade (providing some of the most
   shocking war footage in Deneb Sector history), decisive battles were
   won by the Brandon fraction, and they finally secured overall
   supremacy in 839.
   
   The Brandoni were basically a cultural group who managed to create a
   working alliance between it's physically and it's mentally handicapped
   fractions, successfully using each group's strengths to cover the
   other's weakness. To their lasting credit, they managed to integrate
   AI, expert systems and old, abused robots to rebuild some semblance of
   a real civilization. As a culture, they eventually faded away, but
   their achievements remain the basis of current Borlund civilization.
   
   However, from about the Fourth Frontier War period to now, the
   Borlundlanders have turned away from contact from the outer world,
   which is quite hostile to them. Borlund endures, but does not grow.


